Getting Started

Welcome to the world of Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures.

To play you’ll need the following things:

Players

As a Player, you’ll create a Trainer, who might choose to take a up a profession, or Class, and capture and train Pokemon to fight alongside their Trainer. Like the protagonists in the Pokemon franchise’s games, manga or anime, Players will be the center of the game’s action.

A Game Master

One person must fill the special role of Game Master, or GM, who controls every non-Player Trainer or Pokemon. They must build adventures, narrate, control non-Player Trainers, non-Player Pokemon and referee and make judgement for any rules that are not perfectly clear.

Books and Dice

Players will need access to the Player’s Handbook and Bestiary. Players have restricted access to the Pokedex section of the Bestiary and should avoid metagaming by only looking up a Pokemon’s Pokedex entry when they’ve used the Pokedex on a particular Pokemon. The GM should have access to the Player’s Handbook, the Bestiary and the Game Master’s Handbook. Players should use the Character Sheets to help organize information relating to their Trainers and Pokemon. Always use a pencil when writing on your character sheets! Information for your Trainer and Pokemon are constantly changing! You will also need gaming dice (d4, d6, d8, at least 2 d10 for use in the common d100 roll, d12, d20). When rolling dice in Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures, you always want to roll high, the only exception is when you roll two d10s to generate a d100 roll. Whenever you roll a d100 roll in Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures, you will want to roll as low as possible.


The Game’s World

	The game is played in a world where many fantastic animals are able to be energized and stored nicely in a machine called a Poké Ball. These animals are called “pocket monsters,” or Pokemon for short, and they are carried as tools, friends and partners by Pokemon Trainers. Trainers have various skills and abilities each defined by a Trainer’s goal. There are Ace Trainers, who focus all of their energy into making their Pokemon the best fighters they can. Breeders, who raise Pokemon as if they are their own children and groom them up to be powerful. The Researcher gathers information and serves as a party’s go-to guy when they confront a creature they’ve never met. Rangers are nature guards who dedicate their life to the protection of a wild creature’s habitat while employing wilds in their feats. A Capture Specialist is a techie Trainer who can tweak equipment, including the Poké Ball to expand their collection. The 
Coordinator employs their Pokemon in Contests instead of battle as she shows off their beauty. Mystics use old magics to link themselves with Pokemon. Finally, the Psychic and Martial Artist get their hands dirty and fight the beasts with their own supernatural powers.

	A Trainer may explore the world and battle at Gyms to gather Badges which allow them entrance to the Pokemon League Championships. They may compete in Contests to enter Grand Festivals. Maybe they’ll uncover a secret plot to destroy the world and try to stop those who would use Pokemon for evil. They may be breeding the most powerful Pokemon as their goal. No matter the destination, Pokemon will be valuable allies and tools in your journeys.

	There are several types of people in the Pokemon world. Naturally trainer types are also various. There are rangers, ace trainers, capture specialists, researchers, coordinators, breeders, master of martial arts and even humans who naturally can use psychic or mystic abilities. When these trainers focus their practices, they can demonstrate unrivaled mastery of their chosen profession.

Creating your trainer


	It is important to note that a Player’s Trainer start out at level 0, and are initially ‘Classless’. They must earn their title in whatever Class they wish to aim for.

	When creating your level 0 trainer, all of your Statistics start at 6, and you have 28 additional points to distribute to a maximum of 14 in any single Stat.

	Trainer Levels are gained when you achieve something that can prove your worth as a Trainer. They mark your experience in triumphs, not experience points like your Pokemon. Whenever one of the following events are completed, you gain a Trainer Level. Parentheses indicate how many levels you could potentially gain from that category of ways to gain a level in the Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures canon.

	- When you gain a Badge from any Gym Leader. (0-50 Canon)
	- When you gain a Ribbon you have not earned before in a Contest. (0-20 Canon)
	- If you can defeat a region’s Elite Four and gain a Hall of Fame Ribbon, you gain four levels. 
		(0-24 Canon)
	- If you can defeat a Frontier Brain, the Symbol they award you will gain you two levels. 
		(0-24 Canon)
	- For every ten Pokemon you obtain, you will gain a level. If one of Pokemon evolves, both of their 
	stages in their evolutionary line will be counted towards this count. When you trade a Pokemon 
	away, replace the Pokemon you traded away with the Pokemon you gained for this count unless 
	you own two of the Pokemon you traded away. This is to prevent a party of Trainers from trading 
	and then trading back, just to increase the count of “owned Pokemon”. (0-65 Canon)
	- For every twenty-five Pokemon you identify with your Pokedex, you will gain a level. This is not 	
	a shared total with all of the Trainers in your party. You must actually use your Pokedex, to add to 
	this total. Pokemon are everywhere! Be sure to always Pokedex the new ones! (0-27 Canon)
	- If you do something that your GM believes noteworthy, they may award you a level at that time. 	
		(0-∞)
	- Add all of these canon totals together and that would give 190 ways to level up, not including the
 	GM’s awarded levels. Even though there are over 150 ways to level up, the Trainer level cap is 50. 	

	But, most full campaigns, starting at level 0, still only get to the high twenties. Starting a campaign at a higher level can easily change that.

	Refer to the leveling chart to determine what is gained during a specific level up. Then refer to the feats list to see what useable feats exist. Gain your Stat Points before taking your Feature when you level up, so you may use those Stats to meet prerequisites. When making your character, it might be a good idea to cater stats toward a particular class even if you cannot yet get a class feat.

	When a trainer gains a level they might meet the prerequisites to gain a Trainer Class. In place of gaining a Feature that level, they may instead take a Class Feature. When you choose to take a Class 
Feature, you do not gain any other type of chosen Feature, as all Class Features, including Advanced 
Features, come with two Features to go with your new class.

	Trainers all start with the title “Pokemon Trainer”. A Pokemon Trainer can take up to three Trainer Classes and/or Advanced Classes, and a fourth Trainer Class or Advanced Class at level 25.

					    Trainer Level Chart
Trainer Level		Feats Gained		Stats Gained	Feats Gained	Stats Gained
0			0			0			0		0
1			1			1			1		1
2			1			1			2		2
3			1			1			3		3
4			1			1			4		4
5			1			1			5		5
6			1			1			6		6
7			1			1			7		7
8			1			1			8		8
9			1			1			9		9
10			1			1			10		10
11			1			1			11		11
12			1			1			12		12
13			1			1			13		13
14			1			1			14		14
15			1			1			15		15
16			1			1			16		16
17			1			0			17		16
18			1			1			18		17
19			1			0			19		17
20			1			1			20		18
21			1			0			21		18
22			0			1			21		19
23			1			0			22		19
24			0			1			22		20
25(+1 Class)		1			0			23		20
26			0			1			23		21
27			1			0			24		21
28			0			1			24		22
29			1			0			25		22
30			0			1			25		23
31			1			0			26		23
32			0			1			26		24
33			1			0			27		24
34			0			1			27		25
35			1			0			28		25
36			0			1			28		26
37			1			0			29		26
38			0			1			29		27
39			1			0			30		27
40			0			1			30		28
41			1			0			31		28
42			0			1			31		29
43			1			0			32		29
44			0			1			32		30
45			1			0			33		30
46			0			1			33		31
47			1			0			34		31
48			0			1			34		32
49			1			0			35		32
50			0			1			35		33

Trainer Stats


	When creating your Trainer, you’ll notice on the Trainer character sheet that a Trainer has six stats. These stats are Strength, Constitution, Dexterity, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma. These are abbreviated throughout the Handbook into STR, CON, DEX, INT, WIS, and CHA.

		Strength
	Strength measures your physical power. Trainers who possess great physical prowess can 
actively involve themselves in battle while training alongside their Pokemon to inspire their 
Pokemon’s power as well.
			Trainers who excel in Strength become…
	- Ace Trainers, inspiring their Pokemon’s power with their own.
	- Martial Artists, using their muscles to punish those who would harm their friends.
	- Mystics, combining their souls with Pokemon and overcoming their will with their own.

		Constitution
	Constitution measures the body’s concentration, stamina and life force. Those with great deals of stamina find themselves lasting much longer while exploring and are more likely to survive a hostile encounter with wild Pokemon.
			Trainers who excel in Constitution become…
	- Ace Trainers, lasting long enough to command their Pokemon towards victory.
	- Coordinators, using their body’s make up to influence a judge’s opinion.
	- Psychics, sacrificing their life force to cause harm to those who would harm them.

		Dexterity
	Dexterity relates to a Trainer’s reflexes, balance, hand-eye coordination and speed. The most nimble Trainers can avoid trouble, or bypass it, by using their skills in inventive ways.
			Trainers who excel in Dexterity become…
	- Capture Specialists, directing Poke Balls toward desired targets in perfect ways.
	- Martial Artists, using their body’s perfect training to combat foes acrobatically.
	- Rangers, directing their Stylers in order to best restrain wild foes.

		Intelligence
	Intelligence is a measure of mind and reason. Those Trainers without Intelligence may find it hard to learn new things or retain valuable information. However, with enough smarts, one could 
memorize the Pokedex.
			Trainers who excel in Intelligence become…
	- Capture Specialists, using their knowledge of technology to modify their inventions.
	- Psychics, using their mind to impact the world in a literal manner.
	- Researchers, memorizing thousands of bits of information to lead a team.

		Wisdom
	Wisdom is used to keep one’s mind aware to the world around them. It is one’s common sense, 
intuition, perception and ability to empathize with humans and Pokemon alike. Minor details and the 
intention of others are clear to one with great Wisdom.
			Trainers who excel in Wisdom become…
	- Breeders, raising their Pokemon as children in order to empower their family.
	- Mystics, synchronizing their souls with nature itself to perceive in ways unmatched.
	- Researchers, using their intuitive sense to master all forms of information.

		Charisma
	Charisma is likened to one’s charm, persuasiveness, and general force of personality. With enough Charisma, one could influence others into letting them do whatever they please.
			Trainers who excel in Charisma become…
	- Breeders, becoming a parent with a great deal of authority and trust among team mates.
	- Coordinators, using their charms to cheat their way through any conversation.
	- Rangers, who are respected law enforcers who serving their fellow man and Pokemon.

	Just because you create a trainer who happens to excel in Strength or Intelliegence doesn’t mean you’ll need to force them into any particular class. This list is simply a list of suggestions. You’ll find that in making a trainer who is good at Dexterity and Strength, they will naturally be adept in the study of martial arts. It might be a good idea to figure out what kind of Class, or even Advanced Class, you’d like to go in to when building your trainer. Their starting stats will affect how early you can pick up your desired class.

Using Trainer Stats



	After creating your very own Trainer, with the 28 points you can distribute across the Trainer’s stats, you’ll be able to calculate modifiers.

	Modifiers are used for ‘dice checks,’ that your GM may ask you to make to see if you are 
successful in any particular endeavour and while using various Features. Features will constantly ask you to use Stat Modifiers to measure the effectiveness of the Feature.

	To find a Stat’s Modifier, add 1 point for the Modifier for every 2 points the stat is above 10 or subtract 1 point for the Modifier for every point the stat is below 10. For example, if a stat is 10, it does not have a Modifier; if a stat is 9, its modifier is -1; if a stat is 12, its modifier is +1.

	Here are a few more examples
	of the Modifiers at different 
	levels of the six Stats:



	Sometimes a Feature will ask for 
	a Stat instead of Modifier. In that
	case, just pull the correct stat-
	No modifiers necessary.


Stat 	Modifier
-5
-3
9	-1
10	0
13	+1
16 	+3
17	+3
20	+5


Strength
	The STR modifier is added to any improvised attack. Also, whenever performing an athletic act or one that requires great strength, your GM may ask you to make a STR check. Add or subtract your STR modifier from this check.

Constitution
	The CON modifier might be used when you are performing a feat of endurance, like skipping a night of sleep or starving yourself. The Constitution stat also serves another special purpose. 
	- A Trainer’s HP is calculated by multiplying their Constitution stat by 4. 
	- Each time a Trainer levels up, they also gain 4 HP. 
	- A Trainer’s HP is calculated with this forumla:
			         [(CON Stat X 4) + (Trainer Level X 4)]

Dexterity
	DEX modifier is added to your Evasion bonus, unless it’s a negative number. Whenever you are targeted by a hostile attack with a Damage Dice Roll, the attacker must roll your Evasion bonus higher than their usual Accuracy Check to hit (the Evasion bonus from DEX caps at 6). Also, whenever 
performing an act that requires aim, balance, flexibility or speed, your GM may ask you to make a DEX check. Add or subtract your DEX modifier from this check.

Intelligence
	Whenever performing an act that requires academic knowledge, experience, or general intellect your GM may ask you to make a INT check. Add or subtract your INT modifier from this check.

Wisdom
	WIS modifier is your Perception Bonus and your Reflex Bonus. Whenever you are targeted by a hostile attack without a Damage Dice Roll, the attacker must roll your Reflex bonus higher than their usual Accuracy Check to hit (the Reflex bonus from WIS caps at 6).Whenever your GM asks you to make a perception check, you must roll and apply your WIS modifier to that check. The better you roll, the more aware you are of a particular situation surrounding you.

Charisma
	Whenever performing an act that requires bluffing, diplomacy, or how you present yourself in 
general your GM may ask you to make a CHA check. Add or subtract your CHA modifier from this check.

How to Read Trainer Features

Trainer Features will be organized like this:

Feature Name			Class Feature Category
Prerequisites
Frequency
Target/Trigger:
Effect:

Feature Name     			Class Feature Category
	The Feature’s Name and Category. Sometimes the category is important when counting how many Features you have for a particular class, when trying to meet a prerequisite. Other then Class Features or Advanced Features, there are a subset of Features for each existing class, Arms Features as well as normal Trainer Features.


Prerequisites
	Prerequisites must be met before you can take any Feature.


Frequency
	Frequencies limit how often you can use a Feature. If a Feature is Static, it is an ongoing 
effect that doesn’t need activation. If a Feature is At-Will, you can use a Feature as much as you’d like, provided you activate it. Other Features may be limited to once per Hour, Day, Week or even Month, noted as Hourly, Daily, Weekly or Monthly. Sometimes, a Frequency will have a cost or HP or 
Pokecredits. Also, sometimes a Frequency will have a rate of increase, listing how many Trainer levels once must be in order to use it an additional time per Hour/Day/Week/Month/etc.


Target/Trigger
	The Target/Trigger line explains when the Feature may be used, or what kind of target it can be used on. If there is none, it probably means that there is no target, as the Feature is an ongoing 
effect.

	If your available actions allow for it, you may activate multiple feats off one trigger, but you may only activate any single feat only once due to the same instance of a trigger. For example, “I 
Believe In You!” may be activated only once per attack.


Effect
	The Effect will list in detail what the Feature does. Sometime the Effects of Features are 
ongoing from the moment you get them, or sometimes the Effects will work for a whole encounter or a single turn. Simply follow the Feature’s Effect details. If anything a Feature says to do conflicts with another existing rule, the Feature’s text overrules that rule for the purpose of that Feature. 



















































 
 Feature Reference Icons
	Next to the Feature Category, small icons are placed as a reference as to when a 
  Feature is appropriate to use, and how it affects your Trainer’s turn. 


				A Static ability. These do not require activation and are 
				usually active from the moment they are obtained.


		A Free Action. Free Actions are usually activated at any 
		time a Trainer Actions could be activated, but they do 
		not consume your Trainer Action during your turn.
  

				A Trainer Action. These take your Trainer Action during 
				your turn in encounters. They can also be made at almost 
				any time outside of an encounter as well.


		An Interrupt Symbol. A Feature with this symbol can be 
		used during combat to immediately activate, even if it is 
		not the Trainer’s turn to act. These symbols can appear 
		on Free Action Features or Trainer Action Features. 
		When a Trainer Action is used as an Interrupt, the 
		Trainer will not be able to make a Trainer Action during their next turn. 
		However, if they use another Trainer Action with an Interrupt symbol again, 
		they can prolong that loss of Trainer Action until they do not use an Interrupting 
		Trainer Action and pass during their turn to use a Trainer Action.

				The Extended Action Symbol. A Feature with this symbol 
				reminds the Trainer that the Feature takes more than 6 seconds 
				to use. This would mean that it would be odd to activate during 
				an encounter, when rounds are only 6 seconds long. This doesn’t 
				mean you can’t use a Feature with this symbol during combat, it 
				might just not be a very good idea.

		A Non-Possession Icon. This icon is placed on Features 
		that cannot be used while “Possessing” with the 
		Advanced Mystic Class, Shaman.


					The League ‘Legal’ and League ‘Illegal’ icons. Green is for 
					Legal and Red is for Illegal. If a Feature has a Legal icon, 
					it can be used during official League sanctioned Pokemon 
					battles, such as Gym Battles or even casual Trainer Matches.
					If a Feature has an Illegal icon, you should refrain from 
		using the Feature during an official League sanctioned Pokemon Battle. These 
	Features are deemed ‘Illegal’ because they usually will directly interfere with the 
		Pokemon Battle and using them will usually result in your disqualification.

Trainer Features




	When it comes to the Pokemon franchise, usually the trainer sits back and lets their 
Pokemon do all the battling, the heavy lifting, travelling, and well pretty much everything that doesn’t have to do with handling money or talking to other trainers. In Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures, 
Trainers take a proactive role during the game to help their Pokemon to victory. Whether it’s literally with their Pokemon, like the combat classes; by boosting the power of their Pokemon, like the support classes; or by boosting the efforts of your whole party, like the leader classes; Trainers have a dominant role in Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures.
	Each of the 9 Base Classes have multiple Advanced Classes that specialize in something 
specific. These Advanced Classes can be focused on, or picked up through Cross-Classing. Base 
Classes immediately make your trainer proficient in a specific type of endeavor and with enough focus into a Base Class, through the use of Advanced Classes, you can find yourself to be a Trainer who dominates the Pokemon scene.
	Class Features and Advanced Features, unlike most features, come with a stat Bonus that is 
immediatley added to your Stats. In addition to these stat Bonuses, each Class Feature and Advanced Feature comes with two Features, it’s like three Features at once! This is why you can’t take more than 3 total Class/Advanced Features until a very high level. 

       Below are each of the 9 Base Class Features and the Advanced Features that are built from them. 

	Ace Trainer -
Chaser, Enduring Soul, Stat Ace, Strategist, Tag Battler, Type Ace, Underdog

	Breeder -
Botanist, Chef, Evolver, Groomer, Hatcher, Medic, Move Tutor

	Capture Specialist -
Artificer, Collector, Engineer, Juggler, Pokeball Designer, Snagger, Trapper

	Coordinator -
Beauty Modeler, Choreographer, Cool Trainer, Cute Idol, Fashion Designer, Smart Teacher, Tough Guy

	Martial Artist -
Athlete, Aura User, Black Belt, Dirty Fighter, Massage Therapist, Ninja, Weapons Master

	Mystic -
Bodysnatcher, Buffet, Godspeaker, Guardian, Rune Master, Shaman, Touched

	Psychic -
Air Adept, Clairsentient, Earth Shaker, Empath, Fire Breather, Hex Maniac, Rain Waker

	Ranger -
Coach, Commander, Detective, Rider, Signer, Special Operations, Survivalist

	Researcher -
Cryptozoologist, Dream Doctor, Petrologist, Photographer, Professor, Scientist, Watcher

	When playing a campaign with a Party, it might be a good idea to make sure there isn’t too much overlapping of Class Features. It might be a better idea if players choose different classes to maximize the amounts of things your party can do well. For example, if each player decided to be Martial Artists, sure your party would be great in combat during wild encounters, but they might be lacking when it comes to League matches. Talk with your party members before a campaign to see if a compromise can be made concerning who will play what. It won’t always be needed and depending on the campaign in question, it might even be better to have that Party full of Martial Artists. Consider what Features you take in the same way. If a Feature does something similar to what another party member can do, maybe it might be better to find something else to take for more variety?

     Leader Roles -
	The Coordinator, Ranger and Researcher Base Classes serve as good “leader roles” in a party. This doesn’t means that you will lead your party best of the other players you play with, but it will mean that your role will be of the most supportive to the group as a whole. Coordinators can grant benefits for Pokemon and their Advanced Classes excel in a particular type of boosting. Some of the Coordinator’s Advanced Classes can even design special clothing that can benefit anyone who wears it. Rangers serve as great leaders because of their public ‘face.’ Rangers are enforcers of the law and aid people with their unique Stylers. Advanced Ranger Classes focus on boosting an aspect of that lawful enforcement and usually enable even more Charismatic influence. Researchers are great leaders as well because of their knowledge base. Through them, your team will be very well informed. Advanced Researchers gather more information for your team to use against any foe or gain the ability to use oddities that they make themselves or discover around them.

     Support Roles -
	Unlike Leaders, who support players and Pokemon alike, a “support role” focuses the most on your own Pokemon. As an Ace Trainer, a Breeder, or a Capture Specialist you will see your group of Pokemon rising above the rest of the party’s Pokemon. The Pokemon raised by Ace Trainers grow much faster than any other Trainer’s. Their Advanced Classes boast huge boosts in their Pokemon’s power and find inventive new ways to infuse their Pokemon with more, more and more power. Breeders hatch and raise Pokemon to improve the quality of their Pokemon. While they might not hit as hard as an Ace Trainer’s Pokemon, a Breeder’s Pokemon boasts more versatility and with their Advanced Classes a uniqueness unparalleled by any other class. The Capture Specialists improve their Pokemon in a special way too; they expand their collection as a whole very easily. In addition to being able to remove wild targets from a battle, simply by catching them, their vast collection of Pokemon will enable them to be useful in any situation. Their Advanced Classes go farther into the technical aspects of the Pokemon world and use intellect to solve different problems for themselves.

     Combat Roles - 
	“Combat Role” Trainers have a lot of fun in battle. Viewing their Pokemon as equals, or maybe viewing themselves as the equals of Pokemon; they throw themselves into battle. The Classes fall into three modes of power: The Martial Artist uses physical strength, the Psychic uses the power of mind over matter, and the Mystic uses... Well, ‘magic’ to tie themselves to Pokemon and fight. Martial Artists wield physical power of their body to defend allies and crush foes. At higher levels, the Martial Artist will be able to take on the strongest Pokemon in close-quarters-combat. Psychics use their mind to alter the world around them. Advanced Class Psychics can exhaust their body to create flashy elemental 
attacks or influence others with their Psychic powers. The Mystic uses ancient methods to become one with their Pokemon. By sharing their mind with their Pokemon, and vice versa, they can borrow 
abilities to use in battle. The most advanced Mystics can greatly influence their bond with Pokemon or even combine their spirit with Pokemon.

General Features




	These features are general Trainer Features, and may be taken by any Trainer, regardless of their classes, as long as they meet the required prerequisite. 

Aim For the Horn!				Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 13 WIS 
     Daily – Every 4 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon targeting with a Move.
     Effect: On a roll of 19 or 20 during Accuracy Check, your Pokemon’s attack will deal Neutral damage regardless of Immunities or Resistances.

Aim For the Horn! +				Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Aim For the Horn!, 16 WIS 
     Daily – Every 2 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon targeting with a Move.	
     Effect: On a roll of 16-20 during Accuracy Check, your Pokemon’s attack will deal Neutral damage 
regardless of immunities or resistances. This Feature replaces Aim For the Horn!

Back Off  						Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 13 CHA 
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: A Trainer, not involved in a Gym or Competition battle, challenges you.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If the result is higher then 10, the Trainer is intimidated and withdraws their challenge.

Chosen One  						Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Level 16
     Daily 
     Trigger: You fail to roll high enough for any type of check.
     Effect: You don’t fail the check. You may not apply this to a Pokemon’s check.

Close Your Eyes!  				Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 13 INT 
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon is targeted by a Move listed below.
     Effect: Use when one of your Pokemon is targeted by one of these Moves: Attract, Astonish, Captivate, Charm, Encore, Follow Me, Flash, Glare, Hypnosis, Leer, Mean Look, Sand-Attack, Scary Face, Sleep 
Powder, Spore, Tail Whip, Taunt, Teeter Dance. The foe must roll +2 during Accuracy Check to hit your Pokemon.

Cover Your Ears!  				Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 13 WIS
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon is targeted by a Move listed below.
     Effect: Use when one of you pokemon is targeted by a Move with the Sound keyword. The foe must roll +2 during Accuracy Check to hit your Pokemon.





Dual Wielding  					Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Level 10, 12 STR , 12 CON, 12 DEX, 12 INT, 12 WIS, 12 CHA
     Static
     Effect: You may control 2 Pokemon at the same time. During a round of battle, they are each included in the battle queue. You are still only allotted 1 Trainer Action. During a round in which you use Dual 
Wielding, you may not use the effects of Multitasking.

Give it Your All  				Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Level 1
     One Time Use Only - Once you take Give it Your All, gain one additional use per 
	10 levels gained.
     Effect: Target one of your Pokemon’s Moves. For one use, it is a Critical Hit that cannot miss. 

Hey Guys, Watch This  			Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Level 1
     Static
     Effect: From now on, instead of gaining a new Feature when you level up during levels that you would gain a Feature, you gain 1 Feat Point. A Feat Point can be spent at anytime you can use a Trainer Action, and does not take a Trainer Action to use. When you spend a Feat Point, you may add any Feature to your Features whose prerequisites you meet. You may not regain any Feat Points you spend. You do not gain a Feat Point on the same level you take Hey Guys, Watch This.

Hold Your Breath!  				Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 13 CON 
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon is targeted by a Move listed below.
     Effect: Use when one of you Pokemon is targeted by one of these Moves: Muddy Water, Poison Gas, 
Poisonpowder, Smog, Stun Spore, Surf, Sweet Scent, Whirlpool. The foe must roll +2 during Accuracy Check to hit your Pokemon.

I Can Take a Hit  				Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 13 CON
     Static
     Effect: When taking damage from anything reduce that damage by 5. This does not reduce the cost of activating Features that require HP loss.

I Can Take a Hit +  				Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 17 CON
     Static
     Effect: When taking damage from anything reduce that damage by 10. This does not reduce the cost of activating Features that require HP loss. This Feature replaces I Can Take a Hit.

I Believe In You!				Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 19 CHA
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon that just hit a target with a Move.
     Effect: Your Pokemon deals an additional 1d6 during the Move’s damage for each point you have in CHA modifier. You may not use I Believe In You! With Moves that ignore weakness, resistances and stats. This may only be used once per Move.

I’ve Heard About This Place Before	Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 12 INT 
     Daily
     Target: A Town or City
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS and INT modifiers. If you roll higher than 12, you know local lore, Gym specialties, major sights, and the names of important persons related to the town or city.

League Member  					Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 12 Badges OR Medals, Level 20, facilities 
	(20,000 for Gym facility/40,000 for Frontier facility)
     Static
     Effect: You take on the responsibilities of either a Frontier Brain or a Gym Leader, and you must accept challenges at least once a week. If you lose, you must give the victor a Frontier Medal if you are a brain, or a Gym Badge if you are a leader. If you have 10 Badges you may become a Gym Leader, but you do not need to choose an elemental type. If you have 10 medals you may become a Frontier Brain. You don’t need to remain in your facility’s location to accept challenges, but you do need to let those at your 
facilities know where you are to forward challengers. Each week you are issued 2000 (for Leaders) or 4500 (for Brains) for your services as a League Member and to create Medals/Badges, which can only be done at your facilities for 1050 (for Leaders) or 2050 (for Brains). You are only paid weekly if you accept at least 3 challenges. You may not take League Member more then once, even if you have qualified for multiple positions. Add 2 to your CHA stat.

Let Me Help You With That		Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Level 1
     Daily – Every 4 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An allied Trainer making a check.
     Effect: The ally has +2 added to their check. A check is made while using a Feature.

Let Me Help You With That +		Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Let Me Help You With That
     Daily – Every 7 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An allied Trainer making a check.
     Effect: The ally has +5 added to their check. A check is made while using a Feature. 

Let’s Get That Lock Open			Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 15 INT 
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A non-computerized lock.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If the result is higher then 15, the lock is unlocked and is undamaged and doesn’t appear tampered with.

Look Out!						Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 17 DEX 
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon that was targeted by a Move.
     Effect: Flip a coin until you flip tails. The foe must roll 1 higher during Accuracy Check to hit your Pokemon for each heads during the coin flips. 





Mega Evolver  					Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 8 STR, 8 CON, 8 DEX, 8 INT, 8 WIS, 8 CHA, a Key Stone
     Daily – Every 20 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon with a Mega Stone
     Effect: Mega Evolve the Pokemon for 10 minutes or until it is returned while under 0 HP.

Multitasking  					Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 12 STR, 12 CON, 12 DEX, 12 INT, 12 WIS, 12 CHA
     Static
     Effect: During encounters, you may perform 2 Trainer Actions per round. During a round in which you use Multitasking, you may not use the effects of Dual Wielding.

Not Yet!							Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 17 CON 
     Daily 
     Trigger: Your Pokemon is lowered to 0 HP or less, but not greater then -100% HP.
     Effect: Before fainting, the targeted Pokemon can make one last shift and Move and then 
immediately faints afterwards. This cannot be used with the Move Endeavor, Explosion, Flail, Pain Split, Reversal or Selfdestruct.

Random Knowledge					Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 14 INT or 14 WIS
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Anything you have line of sight to, or an idea or phrase you just heard about from 
	any source.
     Effect: Roll d20 and add your INT and WIS modifiers to the roll. If you roll higher then 13, you know about the thing you targeted. If you are targeting a Pokemon, you must have targeted the Pokemon with a Pokedex.  

Remedial First Aid				Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 13 INT or 13 WIS
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Trainer.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and Add your WIS or INT Modifier. Heal the target this much HP.

Satoshi’s Karma					Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Satoshi’s Luck, released 3 fully-evolved, loyal Pokemon
     Daily
     Target: A roll.
     Effect: You may re-roll any single die. This Feature replaces, Satoshi’s Luck.  

Satoshi’s Luck					Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: released a fully-evolved, loyal Pokemon
     Daily
     Target: A roll.
     Effect: At the cost of 15 HP, you may re-roll any single die. The 15 HP may not be reduced in any way.





Step Aside!						Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Level 1
     One Time Use Only – After taking the feature, you gain one additional use, 
	per 10 levels gained afterwards.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon is targeted by a Move or Trainer Attack.
     Effect: Your Pokemon immediately Shifts. If it Shifts away from the targeted area, the Move or 
Trainer is avoided. If the target is unable to shift out of the way, it takes no damage from the Move or Trainer Attack. Only additional effects with the “Spirit Surge” keyword may activate, should the 
Accuracy Check permit.

Study Session  					Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Bought a book at least once.
     Static
     Effect: You must buy a book at each Pokemart for 70 per town visited. If you don’t have 70 when you enter a town you have never visited, you lose this Feature and cannot get it back. Your Wisdom stat gains 1 point or your Intelligence stat gains 1 point. You may take the Study Session Feature multiple times. If you take this Feature multiple times, you still only need to spend 70 at a time.

Voltorb Flip						Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: 12 CON or 12 INT or 12 WIS 
     At-Will
     Trigger: A human or pokemon tries to pry into your mind to read it.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add either your CON, INT or WIS modifier to the roll. If the roll is 13 or higher, you begin to think of an elaborate game of Voltorb Flip. The person reading your mind cannot read anything other then the game of Voltorb Flip in your mind and all other thoughts, secrets and bits of knowledge are safe from the mind reader. If Voltorb Flip is successful, any attempts to read your mind are unsuccessful for the next hour.

What a Guy  						Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Donated to a charity at least once.
     Static
     Effect: You must donate 70 to a Pokecenter per town visited. If you don’t have 70 when you enter a town you have never visited, you lose this Feature and cannot get it back. Your Charisma stat gains 1 point. You may take the What a Guy Feature multiple times. If you take this Feature multiple times, you still only need to donate 70 at a time.

Workout  						Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Exercised at least once.
     Static
     Effect: You must exercise at least once every 3 days. A workout session should consume at least 30 minutes of time. While exercising you lose 25 HP. If you forget to exercise at least once every 3 days you lose Workout. Your Strength stat gains 1 point or your Constitution stat gains 1 point. You may take the Workout Feature multiple times. If you take this Feature multiple times, you still only lose 25 HP.

Yoga Break  						Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: You practice Yoga.
     Static
     Effect: You must practice yoga at least once every 3 days. A yoga session should consume at least 30 minutes of time. While exercising you lose 25 HP. If you forget to do yoga at least once every 3 days you lose Yoga Break. Your Dexterity stat gains 1 point. You may take the Yoga Break multiple times. If you take this Feature multiple times, you still only lose 25 HP.

Arms Features

	Arms Features employ weapons to attack pokemon or other Trainers. These features are to be used when a GM allows Trainers to openly bear weapons in the campaign they are running. However, Arms User and Weapon of Choice can affect “Unarmed” combat, which is always defined as attacks made with no material weapons.
	The Weapons themselves are handled abstractly. The only mechanical difference between 
weapons deals with MELEE, SHORT-RANGE, and LONG-RANGE weapons. Unless affected by a Class Feature, Arms Features always deal Physical Damage, and Normal-Type Damage. The damage dealt is determined by your Arms User or Weapon of Choice Features, and possibly modified by the weapon itself.
	- Melee Weapons have a range of 1 Meter.
	- Short Range Weapons, which include “Thrown” weapons, have a range of 1 to 5 meters. 
	- If attacking a target within melee range, Throwing Weapons deal damage at -1 Damage Base.
	- Long Range Weapons have a range of 10 Meters, but have a minimum range of 4 Meters.

Damage Base 1	1d10+4
Damage Base 2	1d12+6
Damage Base 3	2d8+6
Damage Base 4	2d10+8
Damage Base 5	3d8+10
Damage Base 6	3d10+12
Damage Base 7	3d12+14
Damage Base 8	2d12+16


Arms User			Trainer Feature
     Prerequisite: Gifted - EVERYONE
     Static
     Effect: Your AC check for Arms attacks is AC6. Whenever you deal damage with an 
ARMS FEATURE, add the highest of your STR, DEX, or CON modifiers to the damage dealt.
	- Whenever you use an Arms feature, you deal [Damage Base 1] damage.
	- If you are level 10 or higher, you deal [Damage Base 2] damage instead.
	- If you are level 15 or higher, you deal [Damage Base 3] damage instead.
       
Weapon of Choice		Trainer Feature
     Prerequisite: Trainer
     Static
     Effect: Choose a specific weapon type such as ‘longsword’, ‘unarmed’, or ‘slingshot’. This becomes your “Weapon of Choice”. You may take Weapon of Choice multiple times, each time choosing a new weapon.
	- When using your Weapon of Choice, your AC check for Arms Features is 
		AC4, and you deal [Damage Base 2] damage.
	- If you are level 10 or higher, you deal [Damage Base 4] damage instead.
	- If you are level 15 or higher, you deal [Damage Base 6] damage instead.
      
	Note: Though Pokeballs may be used as part of an Arms Attack, Pokeballs essentially count as a Weapon and not a Pokeball when used in this way. This means you cannot trigger or benefit from any features that rely on a Pokeball being thrown when using them as Arms Features, and you cannot make a Capture Roll after throwing a Pokeball as an Arms Feature.


Ace Trainer


	Class Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	13 STR, 13 CON

	Bonuses: +1 STR +1 CON
	Penalties: -2 WIS


Base Features

Enhanced Training 			Ace Trainer Feature
     Static
     Effect: Each of your Pokemon gains and additional 20% the amount of experience they would gain normally.

Improved Attacks				Ace Trainer Feature
     Static
     Trigger: Your Pokemon’s damage dealing attack hits.
     Effect: When adding up damage dealt to the foe, add either half of your STR modifier or half of your CON modifier before your foes subtracts their defense or special defense from the attack.


Ace Trainer Features

Affirmation					Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, 16 STR
     At-Will
     Trigger: Your Pokemon fells a foe or scores a critical hit.
     Effect: Your Pokemon gains temporary Hit Points equal to your STR modifier doubled.

Beast Master					Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, 8 Badges
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon.
     Effect: Your Pokemon do not protest to your commands. They cannot be disobedient unless they are
Legendary.

Break Through!				Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, 16 STR
     Daily
     Trigger: Your Pokemon’s damage dealing attack hits.
     Effect: Your Pokemon’s attack deals typeless damage.

Brutal Workout				Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, 15 CON
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon who just defeated another Pokemon.
     Effect: The target loses half of its full HP but gains +100% the experience they would have gained from the foe they just felled. This may only be used once per turn.

Constructive Criticism		Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, 16 CON
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon that missed all targets with a move on its previous turn.
     Effect:  Your Pokemon needs to roll -1 on accuracy checks for the remainder of the encounter.

Focus						Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, Constructive Criticism
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon uses a move without a Damage Dice Roll.
     Effect: Subtract half your CON modifier from the move’s Accuracy Check. This may not be used with moves that set the target’s HP to 0.

Improved Attacks +			Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, 16 STR, 16 CON
     Static
     Trigger: Your Pokemon’s damage dealing attack hits.
     Effect: When adding up damage dealt to the foe, add your STR modifier or your CON modifier before your foes subtracts their defense or special defense from the attack. The Feature replaces Improved 
Attacks.





Improved Attacks Z			Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, Improved Attacks +, 20 STR, 20 CON
     Static
     Trigger: Your Pokemon’s damage dealing attack hits.
     Effect: When adding up damage dealt to the foe, add your STR modifier and your CON modifier 
before your foes subtracts their defense or special defense from the attack. The Feature replaces 
Improved Attacks +.

Intimidate					Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, 17 STR, 15 CON
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: You use the Intimidate Ability on the target.

Press						Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your own Pokemon.
     Effect: Deal damage to your Pokemon equal to 1/5th of their total HP with your weapon. Raise any of their stats’ Combat Stages 1 level. Using Press more than once per Pokemon, per day may make them dislike you.

Press +						Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, Press
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your own Pokemon.
     Effect: Deal damage to your Pokemon equal to 1/4th of their total HP with your weapon.. Raise any of their stats’ Combat Stages 2 levels. Using Press more than once per Pokemon, per day may make them dislike you. This Feature replaces Press. 

Taskmaster					Ace Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, Press+
     Static
     Effect: Whenever you use Press, Press+, or Positive Press on a target, remove the Flinched and 
Confused conditions on the target if applicable, and raise any negative combat stages to 0. 

Chaser


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ace Trainer, 1 major foe’s escape 
	or 3 Pokemon with Pursuit

	Bonus: +1 STR




Base Features

No Escape						Chaser Feature
     Static
     Target: Self.
     Effect: When Pokemon or trainers try to flee during an encounter that you are participating in and their movement speed is equal to or greater than yours or your Pokemon’s, they must roll 1d20 and add either their DEX modifier or half their relevant speed capability. If they surpass 8 + your STR modifier, they successfully escape. Otherwise, they are unable to leave the encounter. Someone using the Run Away ability does not need to roll to escape regardless of their movement speed. 

Torrential Assault				Chaser Feature
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: A pokemon or trainer successfully flees or a trainer recalls their Pokemon.
     Effect: You may have an active pokemon make an attack on a Pokemon or trainer as an Interrupt before they escape or are returned. If you are attacking a Pokemon that has fainted and you lower them to -100% they must still make a death savings throw.

	Mechanic -Escaping From Combat- If your movement capability (not your Speed stat) is higher than your opponent’s and you are not Trapped, you can generally escape without fail. If you cannot outrun your opponent, you generally cannot escape unless the terrain is highly in your favor or you possess the Run Away ability. Chasers are Pokemon trainers who excel at making it difficult for even the fastest of targets from getting away, however, and are living exceptions to this rule.


Chaser Features

Aha! Got you!					Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Chaser
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform his Feature another time per day.
     Effect: When your Pokemon use a move with the Trap keyword, you may choose to maximize its 
duration instead of rolling.
 
Bloodthirst						Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Chaser, 18 STR
     Static
     Effect: You can tell if a target is under 50% HP. In addition to this, whenever a hostile target is below 50% HP, your active Pokemon gains 1 Speed Combat Stage. This Speed Combat Stage fades when no hostile targets are below 50% health, and you do not gain multiple Combat Stages when multiple 
enemies are under 50% HP.

Don’t Stop						Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Chaser, 15 STR
     Daily - Every 7 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon knocks out a foe.
     Effect: After knocking out a foe, the triggering Pokemon may make another Shift and use another Move in that same turn during the encounter. You may only activate this feature once per Pokemon per encounter. 
 
Finish Them! 						Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Chaser, Bloodthirst
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon using a damaging Move.
     Effect: Declare this Feature when a Pokemon hits with Move with a Damage Dice Roll. If the Move’s target has less than 20 HP after dealing damage, the Pokemon faints, otherwise nothing happens. 
  
Hunting Techniques				Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, Chaser, 2 pokemon with Mean Look, Odor Sleuth, or Pursuit.
     At-Will
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Pay 1200, then roll 1d20 and add your STR modifier. If you roll 15 or higher, that Pokemon learns the Move Mean Look, Odor Sleuth, or Pursuit. You must have two Pokemon that already know the move you attempting to tutor to your Pokemon to be able to tutor that specific move. 
 














Natural High						Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Chaser, Affirmation
     At-Will
     Trigger: You Pokemon fells a foe.
     Effect: After knocking out a foe, chose a stat other than HP. That stat is raised 1 Combat Stage.

No Escape +						Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Chaser, No Escape, 15 STR
     Static
     Target: Self.
     Effect: When Pokemon or trainers try to flee during an encounter that you are participating in and their movement speed is equal to or greater than yours or your Pokemon’s, they must roll 1d20 and add either their DEX modifier or half their relevant speed capability. If they surpass 12 + your STR 
modifier, they successfully escape. Otherwise, they are unable to leave the encounter. Someone using the Run Away ability must roll to escape as if they did not have that ability. If the target successfully escapes, your movement speed as well as the movement speed of all of your pokemon increases by 4 meters per round for 10 minutes as long as you try to pursue the escapee.
 
Pursuit							Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Chaser, 18 STR
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon or human.
     Effect: Use the Move Pursuit. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat. 
 
Shifting Pursuit					Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Chaser, Pursuit
     Static
     Target: A Pokemon or human.
     Effect: When you purchase this feature, choose a type. When you or one of your Pokemon uses the Move Pursuit, Pursuit may instead be that chosen type instead of Dark. You may not change the Type once you pick the type. You may take this Feature more than once to acquire multiple elemental types for Pursuit. 
 
Sprints							Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Chaser, 16 STR, a Pokemon with a Speed stat of 30 or greater
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon.
     Effect: You may add to your Pokemon’s Speed stat during level up and ignore Base Relation, but only for the Speed Stat.
 
Thrill of the Hunt				Chaser Feature
     Prerequisites: Chaser
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon gaining experience.
     Effect: When your Pokemon pursues a foe and fells them, with Pursuit, due to the effects of a Chaser feature, or in an encounter after the target has previously escaped, they gain +25% the experience they would have gained. 


Enduring Soul


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ace Trainer, Trainer knocked 
	unconscious by a foe at least once 
	or 3 Pokemon with Endure

	Bonus: +1 CON



Base Features

Boundless Endurance		Enduring Soul Feature
     Static
     Effect: You may add to your Pokemon’s HP stat when they level up, ignoring Base Relation.

Press On!				Enduring Soul Feature
     Static
     Effect: Your Pokemon faint when they reach -25% HP instead of at 0 HP.  Pokemon cannot use the Moves Endeavor, Explosion, Flail, Pain Split, Reversal or Selfdestruct while they have 0 HP or less. Pokemon with the Soulless ability cannot benefit from Press On!


Enduring Soul Features

Aware						Enduring Soul Feature
     Prerequisites: Enduring Soul
     Static
     Effect: You may sleep and have just as much awareness to sound, feeling, and smell as if you are awake. You also instinctively sense danger while asleep and can wake up instantly. If you have the status 
affliction Sleep, treat it as normal non-status afflicted sleep. You do not need to make perception checks with a penalty while asleep.   

Hold! 						Enduring Soul Feature
     Prerequisites: Enduring Soul, 3 Pokemon with a Defense stat of 30 or more
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You are hit by a Move which consults the Attack stat or you are hit by a 
	Trainer Arms Feature attack.
     Effect: Lose 25 HP instead of the damage you would have taken. 

Padding						Enduring Soul Feature
     Prerequisites: Enduring Soul, 19 CON
     Static
     Trigger: You are hit by a Move.
     Effect: Subtract your CON modifier from the damage you would take. 

Padding + 					Enduring Soul Feature
     Prerequisites: Enduring Soul, Padding
     Static
     Trigger: You are hit by a Move.
     Effect: Subtract twice your CON modifier from the damage you would take. This Feature replaces 
Padding. 

Soul’s Protection			Enduring Soul Feature
     Prerequisites: Enduring Soul, a Pokemon with the Move Protect
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You are hit by a Move.
     Effect: Use the Move Protect. 

Soul’s Endurance				Enduring Soul Feature
     Prerequisites: Enduring Soul, a Pokemon with the Move Endure
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You are hit by a Move.
     Effect: Use the Move Endure. 

Split						Enduring Soul Feature
     Prerequisites: Enduring Soul
     Daily – Every 7 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: One of your adjacent Pokemon is hit by a damaging Move.
     Effect: You take half of the damage that would have been done to your Pokemon. Your pokemon takes half of the damage it was supposed to take. Apply DEF and SP.DEF for your Pokemon. Apply any 
damage modifiers for yourself. 




Stand!					Enduring Soul Feature
     Prerequisites: Enduring Soul, 3 Pokemon with a Special Defense stat of 30 or more
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You are hit by a Move that consults the Special Attack stat.
     Effect: Lose 25 HP instead of the damage you would have taken. 

Still Standing			Enduring Soul Feature
     Prerequisites: Enduring Soul, 18 CON
     Static
     Trigger: You are lowered to or below 0 HP.
     Effect: You may still issue commands to your Pokemon while unconscious. If you chose to, and in that
encounter you are lowered to -100% HP, you may not make a death saving roll. 

Still Standing + 		Enduring Soul Feature
     Prerequisites: Enduring Soul, Still Standing
     Static
     Trigger: You are lowered to or below 0 HP.
     Effect: You may still issue commands to your Pokemon while unconscious. You may still make a death
savings throw when lowered to -100% HP. This Feature replaces Still Standing. 

Stat Ace

-Special-  When you take Stat Ace, choose Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, or Speed. This becomes your chosen stat. You may take Stat Ace multiple times, choosing different stats each time.


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ace Trainer, 3 Pokemon with
	the chosen stat of 20 or more
	
	Bonus: +1 STR


Base Features

Specialist Training					Stat Ace
     Static
     Target: The stat of choice for any of your Pokemon.
     Effect: You may add half of your STR modifier to the Base stat chosen for Stat Ace to your 
Pokemon. If this changes which of the Pokemon’s base stats are the highest, treat the altered base stats appropriately. 

Stat Subversion						Stat Ace
     At-Will
     Target: Enemy Pokemon.
     Effect: That Pokemon’s stat is decreased by one Combat Stage according to whichever Stat you’ve chosen for Stat Ace. You may only effect one target with Stat Subversion at a time, you may not change targets until the original is unable to battle.


Stat Ace Features

Fixed Competence						Stat Ace
     Prerequisites: Stat Ace, 20 STR
     Static
     Effect: Your Pokemon may not lose Combat Stages in your chosen Stat.

Positive Press						Stat Ace
     Prerequisites: Stat Ace, Press, 15 STR
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon .
     Effect: Deal damage to your pokemon equal to 1/5th of their total HP with your weapon. Raise your chosen stats Combat Stage 2 levels. This Feature does not replaces Press. 

Specialist Training+					Stat Ace
     Prerequisites: Stat Ace, Specialist Training, 3 Badges and/or Medals
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon.
     Effect: Add half your STR modifier to your chosen stat in the base stat of every pokemon you own. For every 10 levels your pokemon have, they gain 1 extra point in your chosen Stat. If these points upset Base Relations, you must fix the upset relation with your subsequent levels. This feature replaces Specialist Training.

Stat Boost							Stat Ace
     Prerequisites: Stat Ace, Level 10
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your pokemon.
     Effect: For 1 encounter the target gains the Ability Speed Boost. If your chosen Stat is not Speed, 
replace the Ability’s name with Attack Boost, Special Attack Boost, Defense Boost or Special Defense Boost appropriately. Also if your chosen Stat is not Speed, replace the word Speed in Speed Boost’s effect with Attack, Special Attack, Defense or Special Defense appropriately. 

Stat Overflow						Stat Ace
     Prerequisites: Stat Ace, Press + or Positive Press
     Daily
     Target: A pokemon.
     Effect: Your pokemon loses half of its full HP. The Pokemon’s Stat, chosen for Stat Ace, is set to +6 Combat Stages. Your Pokemon cannot use a Move during this round of encounter but may still shift. 

Stat Subversion +					Stat Ace
     Prerequisites: Stat Ace, 15 STR
     At-Will
     Target: Enemy Pokemon’s stat you chose Stat Ace for.
     Effect: That Pokemon’s stat is decreased by two Combat Stages according to whichever Stat you’ve chosen for Stat Ace. You may only effect one target with Stat Subversion at a time, you may not change targets until the original is unable to battle. This Feature replaces Stat Subversion.







Stat Unlock							Stat Ace
     Prerequisites: Stat Ace, a Pokemon with 30 in your chosen Stat
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon .
     Effect: Your Pokemon ignore Base Relation, as long as they are adding to the Stat chosen for Stat Ace.

Superior Ability						Stat Ace
     Prerequisites: Stat Ace, 5 Badges and/or Medals
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Target Pokemon.
     Effect: If your active Pokemon’s Stat, chosen for Stat Ace, is higher than the target’s particular stat, that Stat is lowered 1 Combat Stage.

Talent Scout							Stat Ace
     Prerequisites: Stat Ace, 2 Pokemon with Natures that add to chosen Stat
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A wild Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your STR modifier. If the total exceeds 15, that pokemon has a Nature that adds to your chosen Stat. If the total exceeds 25, that pokemon has the Nature of your choice, that adds to your chosen stat.


Strategist 

	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ace Trainer, 18 STR, at least 10 
	Moves without Damage Dice 
	Rolls across your 
	Owned Pokemon
	
	Bonus: +1 STR


Base Features

Field Scout 					Strategist Feature
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon
     Effect: On its next turn, the target may use the move Rapid Spin as if it was on their Move List, and deals additional damage equal to your STR modifier.

Terrain Mastery				Strategist Feature
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self
     Effect:  For the remainder of the encounter, none of your Pokemon receive movement penalties for moving through Rough Terrain, nor Accuracy Penalties when targeting foes in Rough Terrain.

	Mechanic: The Pokemon League of the region the game is set in sanctions official Matches. The specific rules of the match may change from place to place, but anything that applies during an Official Match will at least apply to a battle against a Gym Trainer, Gym Leader, opponent in a 
Pokemon League match, Frontier Brain, Elite Four, or Champion.


Strategist Features

Adaptive Boost				Strategist Feature
     Prerequisites: Strategist
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon uses a Self-Targetting move that raises Combat Stages.
     Effect:  Your Pokemon gains an additional combat stage in any Stat in which they didn’t gain a combat stage that turn.
 
Heightened Potential			Strategist Feature
     Prerequisites: Strategist
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon makes a check on a 1d20 to use a Capability
     Effect: Add your STR modifier to the 1d20 result. This may be used to modify an Accuracy Roll when using the Threaded Capability.
 
Helpful Priorities			Strategist Feature
     Prerequisites: Strategist
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon uses a Move that targets only other allies.
     Effect: Your Pokemon gains X HP, where X is your STR Modifier doubled.  Helpful Priorities  may be triggered on Burst moves like Heal Bell that target Self as well, but only if they affect an Allied Pokemon.
 
Hazardous Intent				Strategist Feature
     Prerequisites: Strategist
     Static
     Effect:  When your Pokemon are placing Hazards, your Pokemon may place an additional X meters of Hazards, where X is your STR modifier. You may place Hazards as you like within your range, and each meter of hazards need not be adjacent to another. If you put Hazards in a square occupied by an enemy, they immediately suffer the effects of the Hazard.

Move Recognition 				Strategist Feature
     Prerequisites: Strategist,  6 Strategist Features
     Static
     Effect: When your opponent’s pokemon uses a Move that it has already used in that encounter, it must roll 2 higher on Accuracy Check to hit your Pokemon.

Personal Walls				Strategist Feature
     Prerequisites:  Strategist
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon uses a Move with the Wall Keyword.
     Effect:  When using moves with the Wall keyword, instead of creating a Wall, your Pokemon creates a coat with the wall’s effect.  This effect has a single target, and your Pokemon may target itself or others with this effect. These coats last until the end of the encounter, or until the target is recalled.
 








Quick Set-Up					Strategist Feature
     Prerequisites: Strategist
     Daily
     Trigger: Your Pokemon uses a move with the Coat, Hazard, Wall, or Weather keyword, or uses a 
	Capability to affect Terrain.
     Effect: Your Pokemon may immediately use a different move with the Coat, Hazard, Wall, or Weather Keyword, or use a different Capability to affect Terrain.
 
Terrain Tactics				Strategist Feature
     Prerequisites: Strategist
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon
     Effect:  Your Pokemon with the Fountain, Freezer, Groundshaper, Materializer, or Sprouter 
Capabilities may, instead of performing a Move on its turn, target up to X square meters within 6 meters, turning the targetted spaces into Rough Terrain.  X is equal to half your STR Modifier plus the 
Pokemon’s Power or Intelligence Capability, whichever is higher. This ability may be limited by the targetted terrain; for example, while a Pokemon with Fountain could turn dirt into mud to create rough terrain, it may not be able to create rough terrain when fighting on concrete.
 
Versatility					Strategist Feature
     Prerequisites: Battle Strategist, 24 STR
     Daily
     Target: Your Pokemon
     Effect: The target may forfeit the use of a Battle Frequency Move to regain use of a different Battle Frequency  Move, or they may forfeit the use of a Center Frequency Move to regain the use of a different Battle or Center Frequency Move from their Move List.
 
Weather Vortex				Strategist Feature
     Prerequisites: Strategist
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon uses a move with the Weather keyword
     Effect:  The target’s Weather does not affect the entire field, and does not replace any existing Weather 
conditions. Instead, your Pokemon targets a space within 6 meters of itself.  From that space originates a Blast with a radius of up to 4 meters, though it may be smaller if you wish.  Your Weather Move affects only this area, and acts as normal within this area.

Tag Battler


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ace Trainer, Dual Wielding
	
	Bonus: +1 CON



Base Features

Team Spirit				Tag Battler Feature
     Static
     Target: Your two active pokemon.
     Effect: Each of your pokemon are treated as if one of their Combat Stages are raised 1 Combat Stage. The Combat Stage raised depends on what the highest Base Stat of your other active 
Pokemon is, ignoring HP.  For example, if one of your active pokemon’s highest stat, ignoring HP, is Attack, the other active pokemon’s Attack will be raised 1 Combat Stage. When switching, the 
Combat Stages are lowered and then raised again depending on the stats of each active pokemon.

Together!				Tag Battler Feature
     Daily
     Target: Your two active pokemon.
     Effect:  The targets may combine two moves that share the same Stat, Elemental Type, and can each legally target the target according to each move’s range.

	Mechanic: When you use a Feature that combines two Moves, the Combined Move happens on the slower participant’s turn; the faster participant shifts and uses the move along with the slower on that turn.  If the moves are of the same type, the Combined Move shares that type. If combined moves are of differing types, the Combined Move is typeless. The Moves must both be able to legally target the target according to each Move’s Range. Neither Move can have the Scatter keyword. The Move’s Accuracy Check is the average of the two Moves’ Accuracy Checks. The Damage Dice Roll is both of the Moves’ Damage Dice Rolls combined. Treat the Frequencies of the Moves chosen as you would if you weren’t combining Moves. All Effects are added to the new, combined Move. Combined Moves may not be used by only one pokemon.


Tag Battler Features

Brace Each Other!			Tag Battler Feature
     Prerequisites: Tag Battler
     Static
     Target: Your two adjacent active pokemon.
     Effect: As long as your two active pokemon are adjacent, neither can suffer Push damage nor be Pushed. If your pokemon are adjacent to you, you cannot be Pushed nor suffer Push damage either.

Combine Them!				Tag Battler Feature
     Prerequisites: Tag Battler, 22 CON
     Daily
     Target: Your two active pokemon.
     Effect: The targets may combine two moves that share the same Stat, and can each legally target the target according to each move’s range. This feature does not replace Together!

Dual Assault					Tag Battler Feature
     Prerequisites: Tag Battler, Dual Interference
     Daily - every 8 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon damages an opponent another of your pokemon has damaged this turn.
     Effect: The damaged pokemon loses one Combat Stage in the triggering pokemon’s highest stat.

Dual Interference			Tag Battler Feature
     Prerequisites: Tag Battler
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon damages a foe another of your pokemon has damaged this turn.
     Effect: The targeted foe must roll +2 on Accuracy checks during its next turn when targetting your Pokemon.

Taking One For A Friend		Tag Battler Feature
     Prerequisites: Tag Battler
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: One of your two adjacent active pokemon is targeted by a Move.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add you CON modifier. If you roll higher than 15, the active pokemon who was not targeted may intercept the Move for the targeted pokemon. If the move’s area of effect still hits both pokemon, the pokemon who is intercepting the hit may take both sets of damage before applying 
Defense or Special Defense.

Taking One For A Friend + 	Tag Battler Feature
     Prerequisites: Tag Battler, Taking One For A Friend
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: One of your adjacent active pokemon or ally’s pokemon is targeted by a Move.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add you CON modifier. If you roll higher than 15, the active pokemon who was not targeted may intercept the Move for the targeted pokemon. If the move’s area of effect still hits both pokemon, the pokemon who is intercepting the hit may take both sets of damage before applying 
Defense or Special Defense. This Feature replaces Taking One For A Friend.







With Them! 					Tag Battler Feature
     Prerequisites: Tag Battler
     Daily
     Target: Your one active pokemon while you are in a trainer battle with allies.
     Effect: Your pokemon and one of your ally’s pokemon may combine two moves that share the same Stat, Elemental Type, and can each legally target the target according to each move’s range.

Try This! 					Tag Battler Feature
     Prerequisites: Tag Battler, Combine Them!
     Daily
     Target: Your two active pokemon.
     Effect: The targets may combine two No Damage moves, that do not directly affect HP, have the Wall keyword or copy other moves and can each legally target the target according to each move’s range.

Synchronized Shove 			Tag Battler Feature
     Prerequisites: Tag Battler, Dual Interference
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon damages an opponent another of your pokemon has damaged this turn.
     Effect: The enemy is pushed a number of meters in a direction of your choice equal to the sum of your active pokemon’s Power capabilities.

Teamwork 					Tag Battler Feature
     Prerequisites: Tag Battler, Team Spirit
     Static
     Target: Your two active pokemon.
     Effect: Each of your pokemon are treated as if one of their Speed Capabilities are raised by an amount equal to half of your CON modifier. The Capability raised depends on what the highest Speed Capability of your other active pokemon is.

Type Ace

-Special-  You may take Type Ace multiple times. Each time, you must choose different types.

	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ace Trainer, 4 of the same Type 
	Pokemon Owned in Pokedex
	
	Bonus: +1 CON


Base Features

Type Training			Type Ace Feature
     Static
     Trigger: Your chosen type Pokemon gains experience points.
     Effect: Each of your chosen typed Pokemon gains +30% the amount of experience they would gain normally.

Improved Type Attacks	Type Ace Feature
     Static
     Trigger: Your Pokemon’s chosen type damage dealing attack hits.
     Effect: When adding up damage dealt to the foe, add half of your CON modifier to the total. 


Type Ace Features

Elemental Shifting			Type Ace Feature	
     Prerequisites: Type Ace, 15 CON
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: X is your CON modifier multiplied by 6 seconds, or your CON modifier multiplied by 1 round. The target temporarily gains the Type you feel bound to. If it has 2 Types already, temporarily replace one of their types. It becomes that Type for X. At the end of combat apply experience multipliers from Type Training.

Elemental Sync				Type Ace Feature	
     Prerequisites: Type Ace, Elemental Shifting
     One Time Use Only - You gain one additional use, per 15 levels gained.
     Target: A pokemon.
     Effect: Elemental Sync takes approximately 10 hours to complete. The targeted pokemon is 
permanently gains the Type you feel bound to. If the target has two Types, permanently replace one Type. If this pokemon is a single type, it gains a second type. The pokemon’s physical appearance is 
altered appropriately. You may take this feature up to three times. 

Improved Type Attacks +  	Type Ace Feature		
     Prerequisites: Type Ace, 16 CON
     Static
     Trigger: Your Pokemon’s chosen type damage dealing attack hits.
     Effect: When adding up damage dealt to the foe, add your CON modifier to the total. This feature replaces Improved Type Attacks. 

Move Shift   				Type Ace Feature		
     Prerequisites: Type Ace, Elemental Shifting
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon’s Move.
     Effect: The Move’s Type temporarily becomes the Type you feel bound to for that use. 

Move Sync					Type Ace Feature	
     Prerequisites: Type Ace, Move Shift
     One Time Use Only - You gain one additional use, per 10 levels gained.
     Target: A pokemon’s move.
     Effect: Move Sync takes approximately 5 hours to complete. The targeted move is now permanently the type you feel bound to. 

Soulbound   					Type Ace Feature		
     Prerequisites: Type Ace
     Static
     Effect: When taking damage of your chosen type, treat yourself as if you are Resistant. 









Superior Typing  		Type Ace Feature		
     Prerequisites: Type Ace, Type Soul
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon of your chosen type.
     Effect: When your foe uses attacks of your chosen type they do not add STAB. When your foe uses Moves of your chosen type they cannot Critical Hit or kill your chosen typed pokemon with those Moves. 

Type Soul    			Type Ace Feature	
     Prerequisites: Type Ace
     Static
     Effect: You feel bound to that Elemental Type, but are not obligated to only use that type. You can sense Pokemon of that type nearby; 5-meters multiplied by your CON modifier. You can also sense that Type in Movesets of pokemon; 5-meters multiplied by your CON modifier.

Type Connection			Type Ace Feature	
     Prerequisite: Type Ace, Type Soul
     At-Will
     Target: An indifferent or hostile Wild Pokemon of your chosen type
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CON modifier. If the result is 15 or higher, the pokemon becomes more friendly.  Targets that were initially indifferent may show interest in the trainer.  Targets that were 
initially hostile may still be wary, or may decide to flee, but will cease attacking.  Targets may become hostile again if you attack it or its allies. You may target any single Pokemon with this feature only once per day. 

With The Elements		Type Ace Feature	
     Prerequisites: Type Ace
     Daily
     Trigger: You start an encounter with wild pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CON modifier. If the result is 15 or higher, if the area contains a wild Pokemon of your chosen type, at least one wild Pokemon of that type appears in the current encounter 


Underdog


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ace Trainer, prevented 3 
	Pokemon from evolving
	
	Bonus: +1 CON



Base Features

Everstone Finder			Underdog Feature
     Weekly
     Target: Anywhere on a Route.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CON modifier. If the result is above 15, you find an Everstone. 

Hidden Strength			Underdog Feature
     Daily - Every 10 Levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon, which has at least one evolutionary stage remaining.
     Effect: Choose a Move of the same type as the Target that one of its evolved forms can learn 
naturally. The Target may use that Move once. This may only apply to moves learned at X levels above the target’s level or lower where X is your CON modifier doubled.

	Mechanic: Preventing a pokemon from evolving is surprisingly simple for an Underdog. If the Pokemon is loyal to you, then it will stop itself from evolving if asked or commanded to, or if touched with an Everstone during evolution. This almost never has an effect on the Pokemon’s loyalty, though if you can’t get it an Everstone after several instances of attempted evolution, stopping itself from evolving could become very straining.



Underdog Features

Hidden Strength +			Underdog Feature        
     Prerequisites: Underdog, Hidden Strength
     Daily - Every 10 Levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon, which has at least one evolutionary stage remaining.
     Effect: Choose a Move that one of the Target’s evolved forms can learn naturally. The Target may use that move once. This may only apply to moves learned at X levels above the target’s level or lower where X is your CON modifier. This Feature replaces Hidden Strength.

Hidden Strength X 			Underdog Feature
     Prerequisites: Underdog, Hidden Strength+, 18 CON
     Daily - Every 8 Levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon, which has at least one evolutionary stage remaining.
     Effect: Choose a Tutor Move or Level Up Move that one of the Target’s evolved forms can learn. The Target may use that move once. This may only apply to moves learned at X levels above the target’s level or lower where X is your CON modifier doubled. This Feature replaces Hidden Strength+. 

Versatile Technique 			Underdog Feature
     Prerequisites: Underdog
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon, which has at least one evolutionary stage remaining and whose 
	evolved forms are of a different Type.
     Effect: The Target may add +1/2 STAB as if it were of a Type that one of its evolved forms has.

Forceful Technique 			Underdog Feature
     Prerequisites: Underdog
     Static
     Target: Your first or second-stage Pokemon.
     Effect: The Target may add STAB as if it were 10 Levels higher. If the target is at level 91 or higher add +1/2 bonus STAB. 

Anything You Can Do  		Underdog Feature  
     Prerequisites: Underdog, 3 Underdog Features
     Daily - Every 6 Levels gained, your may perform this feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon, which has at least one evolutionary stage remaining and 
	whose evolved forms are of a different Type.
     Effect: Your CON modifier halved is X. For X rounds, the Target replaces one of its Types with that of one of its evolved forms. 

Capable    					Underdog Feature
     Prerequisites: Underdog, 20 CON
     Static
     Target: Your first or second-stage Pokemon.
     Effect: All of the Target’s existing numerical Capabilities are increased by 1. You may only apply this Feature to one Target at a time. Changing what it is applied to costs a trainer action.







Highly Capable   		Underdog Feature
     Prerequisites: Underdog, Capable
     Daily - Every 5 Levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon, which has at least two evolutionary stages remaining.
     Effect: Your CON modifier is X. For X minutes, all of the Target’s existing numerical Capabilities are increased by 2. 

Incredibly Capable    	Underdog Feature
     Prerequisites: Underdog, Highly Capable
     Daily
     Target: Your Pokemon, which has at least one evolutionary stage remaining.
     Effect: Your CON modifier halved is X. For X minutes, the Target gains one of the Capabilities of one of its evolved forms.

Everstone Improvement	Underdog Feature
     Prerequisites: Underdog, Everstone Finder
     Daily
     Target: An Everstone.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CON modifier. If the result is above 20, designate a Type. From then on, the Target, when held by a Pokemon of the designated Type that is not fully-evolved or is a first-stage Pokemon that cannot evolve, allows that Pokemon to deal +1/2 STAB.

Everstone Perfection     Underdog Feature
     Prerequisites: Underdog, Everstone Improvement, 22 CON, 6 Underdog Features
     Daily
     Target: An Everstone.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CON modifier. If the result is above 20, designate an evolutionary 
family. From then on, when held by a Pokemon of the designated family that has at least one 
evolutionary stage remaining, the target acts as an Eviolite for that Pokemon’s two highest Stats. 

Champ In The Making 		Underdog Feature    
     Prerequisites: Underdog, has prevented the evolution of a Pokemon whose 
	final stage evolves at a minimum of Level 40 or higher
     Daily
     Target: A Pokemon with at least two evolutionary stages remaining, 
	the last of which evolves at a minimum of Level 30 or higher.
     Effect: Choose one Stat. For one battle, the Target increases the chosen Stat by an amount equal to its final stage’s chosen Base Stat. 

The Bigger They Are   	Underdog Feature
     Prerequisites: Underdog
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon when dealing damage.
     Effect: For every evolutionary stage the Target is below the Pokemon receiving its damage, add your CON modifier to the damage before applying Defense or Special Defenses.

Breeder


	Class Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	13 CHA, 13 WIS
	
	Bonuses: +1 CHA +1 WIS
	Penalties: -2 DEX


Base Features


Egg Factory 					Breeder Feature
     Static
     Effect: You may make up to 7 different Breeding Checks per day, and the check for Breeding is 35 instead of 25. Subtract your CHA or WIS mod from the breeding check. Your Pokemon must still have at least 4 hours together. You can identify what pokemon will hatch from an Egg.

Natural Edge					Breeder Feature
     Daily
     Target: A hatching egg you own.
     Effect: Add half of your CHA modifier to any of the pokemon’s base stat and add half of your WIS modifier to any different base stat of the same pokemon. This becomes your pokemon’s new base stats. A Pokemon may only have one Natural Edge or Natural Edge + applied to it when it hatches. This bonus may not exceed +6 in either stat.



Breeder Features

Breed							Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder, 20 CHA, 18 WIS
     Daily
     Target: Two pokemon who are compatible for breeding.
     Effect: Give the targets at least 8 hours of time alone, they will be guaranteed to produce an egg.

Egg Hatcher						Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder
     Static
     Target: Eggs in the possession of the Breeder.
     Effect: Eggs hatch at ¾ of the rate they usually would.

Egg Hatcher +					Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder, Egg Hatcher, 18 CHA
     Static
     Target: Eggs in the possession of the Breeder.
     Effect: Eggs hatch at ½ of the rate they usually would. The Feature replaces Egg Hatcher.

Head Start						Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder
     At-Will
     Target: A hatching egg.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your Charisma mod. If the result is 15 or greater, the Pokemon learns all moves learned at or before level “X” where X equals your Charisma mod.

Home Cooking						Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: Roll 1d4 and add your WIS modifier. The total represents the amount of food portions you make for humans and or Pokemon, feeding them for the whole day. Pokemon that eat your food have their loyalty towards you slightly increased. You know what dietary needs a Pokemon has.

I’ll Take Good Care Of It		Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder, 20 CHA
     Daily
     Target: A non-hostile Female Wild Pokemon with eggs.
     Effect: Roll 1d100 and subtract your charisma modifier. If you rolled lower than the target’s base capture rate, you may receive an egg from the target Pokemon. This roll can be modified by your GM depending on its mood towards you. If you fail, the target may become hostile.

Latent Potential					Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder, 18 WIS
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon who is leveling up to a level evenly divisible by 5.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your Wisdom Modifier. If the total exceeds 15, the pokemon learns a move from its tutor list marked with an “‡,” or any move on its level-up list at a level lower than their current level.




Litters						Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder, 17 WIS, a Pokemon who has helped to make at least 2 eggs
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon who are breeding.
     Effect: Roll 1d4. The roll represents how many eggs are produced after breeding if the breeding was successful. This number may not be modified.

Litters +					Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder, Litters, a Pokemon who has produced at least 3 eggs at once.
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon who are breeding.
     Effect: Roll 1d6 and add 1. The roll represents how many eggs are produced after breeding if the 
breeding was successful. This number may not be modified.

Natural Edge +				Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder, 20 WIS, 22 CHA
     Daily
     Target: A hatching egg.
     Effect:  Add your CHA modifier to any of the Pokemon’s base stat and add your WIS modifier to any different base stat of the same Pokemon. This becomes your Pokemon’s new base stats. A Pokemon may only have one Natural Edge or Natural Edge + applied to it when it hatches. Neither bonus may exceed +6. This Feature replaces Natural Edge.

Natural Progression			Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder, 18 CHA
     Static
     Trigger: A pokemon you own levels up to a level evenly divisible by 5
     Effect: The target pokemon gains +1 to two different base stats. The chosen stats must remain the same each time this feature is applied, and the cumulative bonus cannot exceed the limit of your Natural Edge/+ features. If this is used on a Pokemon with Natural Edge/+ applied, the same stats must be 
chosen and the combination of the two feats still may not exceed the limit. This feature is not retroactive.

Never Would Have Happened	Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder, 8 Breeder Features
     Daily
     Target: 2 opposite gendered Pokemon who aren’t in the same egg group.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS and CHA modifiers. If the total is higher then 22, they are allowed to breed but must still make a Breeding Check to see if an egg is produced.

Tender Loving Care			Breeder Feature
     Prerequisites: Breeder
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and Add your WIS or CHA Modifier. Heal the target this much HP. You may also spend a use of this feature to heal a number of Pokemon equal to your WIS or CHA modifier to their full HP and cure them of any status afflictions after an 8 hour rest. Center Frequency moves are not restored by Tender Loving Care. 

Botanist


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Breeder, 17 WIS 
	(1,250 to build Berry Planter)
	
	Bonus: +1 WIS


Base Features


Berry Planter				Botanist Feature
     Static
     Effect: You create a portable Planter, able to grow and produce plants which grow Apricorns or Berries. Plant an Apricorn or Berry into the Planter Extension, roll 1d4 and add 1. The berry plant will produce Berries in that many days. Once ready to pick, roll 1d4 to determine how many Berries grow per plant. You may plant up to 4 Berries in your planter. You may not plant a fifth Berry until you harvest Berries and make room for it.

Healer Berry Search			Botanist Feature
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Route, or any wilderness area with plant life.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. On a result of 15 or higher, you find a berry. To 
determine its type, roll 1d10. The result is the number of the berry you find in the berry index.




Botanist Features

Altering Berry Search			Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist, four or more Berry Search features
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Route, or any wilderness area with plant life.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier, and choose a Pokemon that you own with a stat above 20. On a result of 20 or higher, you find a berry that lowers the stat you selected the Pokemon for.

Berry Efficiency					Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist
     Static
     Effect: When using any given berry, the target may not consume it if you choose, but still benefits from its effect. The second time the target benefits from the effects of the same berry, it is consumed as normal. If applied to a reusable berry, this feature allows use of it twice in a day without becoming 
useless.

Berry Expert						Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist
     Static
     Effect: You can identify any Berry, its properties, and what it yields in terms of Contest Stats. When you are making Berries into Poffins, Aprijuice, or PokeBlocks, you get +2 to your rolls. When your 
pokemon eat a flavor of Berry that they like, any numerical effects of any loyalty gained is doubled.

Berry Merge						Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist, 22 WIS
     Weekly - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per week.
     Target: Berries
     Effect: Choose 5 berries with an identical set of effects and pay 1,500. The berries are consumed, and you create a hold item that has the same effects as the component berries, but is not consumed on use. If the item is used more than once a day, it loses its flavor and becomes useless. Call the item whatever you’d like.

Booster Berry Search				Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist, a Pokemon with a stat at 30 or higher.
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Route, or any wilderness area with plant life.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier, and choose one of your Pokemon with a stat of 20 or higher. On a result of 15 or higher, you find a berry that increases a Combat Stage when below 50% HP. The stat increased by the berry will be the stat you chose when selecting a Pokemon.

Eat It!							Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist
     Daily - Every 7 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An allied Pokemon
     Effect: The target immediately consumes and benefits from the effects of what berry they are holding, regardless of their current HP or status.






Effectiveness Berry Search		Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist, 20 WIS
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Route, or any wilderness area with plant life.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier, and optionally choose a Pokemon that you own. On a result of 20 or higher, you find a berry that reduces damage from a type that your chosen Pokemon is weak to. If you do not choose a Pokemon when using this feature, you find a Chilan Berry instead.

Flavor Berry Search				Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Route, or any wilderness area with plant life.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. On a result of 15 or higher, you find a berry. To 
determine its type, roll 1d6+10 (reroll a result of 16). The result is the number of the Berry you find in the berry listing.

Hybridization					Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist, has successfully grown 10 berries
     At-Will
     Target: Berries
     Effect: When planting a berry, you may instead plant two berries in the same spot, using parts of each and being unable to use the remainder. The resulting berry plant will grow berries that are a combination of both the ingredients, and has both their effects. When eaten, if both effects cannot apply, then only 
apply the relevant one. Berries created as a result of this feature cannot have this feature applied to them.

Plain Berry Search				Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Route, or any wilderness area with plant life.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. On a result of 15 or higher, you find a berry that has no effect of your choice.

Rare Berry Search				Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist, has grown a Starf, Enigma, Micle, Custap, Jaboca or Rowap Berry
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Route, or any wilderness area with plant life.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. On a result of 20 or higher, you find a berry. To 
determine its type, roll 1d6+58. The result is the number of the berry you find in the berry listing.

Special Nutrients				Botanist Feature
     Prerequisites: Botanist
     Daily
     Target: Planted Berries
     Effect: Choose a planted berry and pay 550. The berry will grow to full size and bear fruit within 24-X hours, where X is you WIS modifer.

Chef


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Breeder, 18 WIS

	Bonus: +1 WIS


Base Features


Energy Boost						Chef Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: You create an Energy Drink that provides Trainers with Temporary Hit-Points equal to your WIS modifier x5. The Temporary Hit-Points disappear in 1 hour. It costs 250 to create the 
Energy Drink.

Soul Food						Chef Feature
     At-Will
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Create a Dish from whatever edible food you’d like. Pokemon that eat this dish will have their mood greatly increased, and will not lose loyalty if they consume Herbal Medicines shortly before or after. It costs 100 to use Soul Food.



	Mechanic: Many Chef Features are Extended Actions. They need to be preapred as one would prepare a meal, so keep this in mind to know how long you would take to use a particular Feature with your Trainer based on their skills and available equipment.


Chef Features

Apricorn Blender					Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef, 14 WIS
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Aprijuice that is being blended.
     Effect: Add your WIS modifier to the value of the Aprijuice.

Baby Food						Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef, 22 WIS
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: You create a Dish that, when eaten by a Pokemon of level 25 or lower, causes that Pokemon to gain an additional 25% the amount of experience they would gain normally for the rest of the day. It costs 350 to use Baby Food.

Bait								Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef
     Daily
     Target: Anywhere on a route.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add you WIS modifier. You create a Dish and place it somewhere on the route. If your roll is less than 10, a random Pokemon, based on your GM’s discretion will appear. If you roll 15 or higher a Pokemon of at least the same level as your highest leveled loyal Pokemon will appear. If you roll 20 or higher, a Pokemon at least 5 levels higher than your highest leveled loyal Pokemon will appear. Pokemon acquired through the use of Bait cannot be used as the basis of determining the level of other Pokemon lured by using Bait.

Herbal Medicine					Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef
     At-Will
     Effect: Create a Heal Powder (175) or Energy Powder (150).

Poffin Mixer						Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef, 14 WIS
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Poffin that is being mixed.
     Effect: Add your WIS modifier to the value of the Poffin or Pokeblock.

Soldier Pills					Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef, 20 WIS
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: You create a Soldier Pill that provides Trainers with enough energy to go 1 day without sleep. After 48 hours without sleep, the item’s consumer loses 10 HP for every hour without sleep. While under the effects of a Soldier Pill, you may not be given the Sleep Status Affliction. If you would be given the Sleep Status Affliction, the Trainer loses 2 of the 48 hours allotted by Soldier Pills +. It costs 500 to create a Soldier Pill.








Sugar Rush						Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef, Energy Boost, 20 WIS
     At-Will
     Effect: You create a Dish that provides Pokemon with Temporary Hit-Points equal to your Wis 
modifier x2. The Temporary Hit-Points disappear in 1 hour. It costs 150 to use Sugar Rush.

Throw Bait						Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef, Bait, Soul Food
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Wild Pokemon
     Effect: You throw a tasty morsel of food a wild pokemon. Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the result is 15 or higher, the Pokemon gives up its next move action to sample the food. If the result is 25 or higher, the Pokemon gives up its next attack action to completely eat the food. It costs 100 to use Throw Bait.

Vile Cook						Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef, 22 WIS
     At-Will
     Target: A Dish you’ve just created
     Effect: Choose Paralysis, Poison, or Sleep. Whenever the targeted Dish is consumed, it inflicts the 
chosen status. It costs 100 to use Vile Cook.

Vitamins							Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef, 20 WIS
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: Roll 1d6. On a result of 1, you create an HP Up; on a result of 2, you create a Protein; on a 
result of 3, you create an Iron; on a result of 4, you create a Calcium; on a result of 5, you create a Zinc; on a result of 6, you create a Carbos. It costs 2,450 to use the Vitamins Feature.

Vitamins +						Chef Feature
     Prerequisites: Chef, Vitamins
     Daily
     Effect: Create a HP Up, a Protein, an Iron, a Calcium, a Zinc or a Carbos. It costs 2,450 to use the 
Vitamins + Feature. This Feature does not replace Vitamins.

Evolver


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Breeder, Mega Evolver

	Bonus: +1 CHA


Base Features


Early Evolution				Evolver Feature
     Static
     Effect: Your CHA modifier is X. Your Pokemon who level up by happiness and level requirement may evolve up to X levels earlier if they meet their requirements.

Mega Stone Maker				Evolver Feature
     Monthly
     Target: One of your fully evolved Pokemon with at least 2 Loyalty
     Effect: Create a Mega Stone exclusively for use the targeted Pokemon. When creating your Mega Stone, decide which Base Stats are boosted while the Pokemon is using the created Mega Stone. You can modify the Base Stats by a total of 10, but no individual stat can be modified by more than 4. Do not modify the HP base stat and do not affect any Base Stats negatively. Discuss with your GM how the Mega Stone affects you Pokemon’s Type and Ability. 






Evolver Features

Devolve!							Evolver Feature
     Prerequisites: Evolver, 22 CHA
     Daily
     Target: A pokemon.
     Effect: You may use this Feature when you successfully damage a pokemon. Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If the result is greater then 21 and the target has less than 10% of its HP left, it is returned to a previous stage of its evolutionary line. If the previous stage is known, it is returned to that particular pokemon. Adjust its stats appropriately, but its Move set is unaltered. That pokemon may not evolve for another 5 levels unless that pokemon is already above level 50.

Early Evolution +				Evolver Feature
     Prerequisites: Evolver, 18 CHA
     Static
     Effect: Your CHA modifier doubled is X. Your Pokemon who level up by happiness and level 
requirement may evolve up to X levels earlier if they meet their requirements. This Feature replaces Early Evolution.

Elemental Evolution				Evolver Feature
     Prerequisites: Evolver, 18 CHA, evolved a pokemon with an Elemental Stone
     Daily
     Target: An allied Pokemon or allied Trainer’s Pokemon, which can evolve through 
	the use of an Elemental Stone.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If the result exceeds 18, the pokemon spontaneously evolves. If you fail the check, the pokemon loses 2 levels, and its experience is lowered appropriately for it to be 2 levels under where it just was. Lower stats appropriately and remove Moves appropriately.

Keepsake Builder					Evolver Feature
     Prerequisites: Evolver, evolved a pokemon that used a held item to evolve
     At-Will
     Effect: You can create an Item that does nothing in battle, but it can serve as a replacement for a 
pokemon’s requirement to evolve if they would need a held item. The item can be named whatever you’d like. Like all other held items that influence evolution, the item disappears after the pokemon evolves. It costs 1000 to use the Keepsake Builder Feature.

Keystone Mod: Burst!!!			Evolver Feature
     Prerequisites: Evolver, Keystone Mod: Charge, Overload, and Time
     Daily
     Target: Two of your Pokemon with Mega Stones
     Effect: Mega Evolve two of your Pokemon at the same time. You may not use this feature if you’ve already Mega Evolved a Pokemon today and you may not Mega Evolve any more Pokemon today.

Keystone Mod: Charge				Evolver Feature
     Prerequisites: Evolver 
     Static
     Effect: You may activate your Key Stone twice Daily. You may not target the same Pokemon with your Key Stone on the same day. Your Key Stone can only Mega Evolve one Pokemon at a time.





Keystone Mod: Overload			Evolver Feature
     Prerequisites: Evolver 
     Static
     Effect: Your Mega Evolved Pokemon deal +2 STAB when using Moves with Damage Dice Rolls. 

Keystone Mod: Time				Evolver Feature
     Prerequisites: Evolver 
     Static
     Effect: Your Mega Evolutions last for up to half an hour or until the Mega Evolved Pokemon or until the Mega Evolved Pokemon is brought down to 0HP. 

Mega Scouter						Evolver Feature
     Prerequisites: Evolver 
     Static
     Effect: You can identify whether any Pokemon has a Mega Stone that it can use to Mega Evolve by looking at it. 

Potential Unleashed				Evolver Feature
     Prerequisites: Evolver, 22 CHA
     Static
     Effect: If you own a Mega Stone that corresponds to a Mega Evolution that appears in the Pokedex, your not-fully-evolved Pokemon that will eventually be fully compatible with the Mega Stone may 
already use the Mega Stone. For example, if you own Blazikenite, your Torchic or Combusken could use it to turn into Mega Blaziken. 

Groomer


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Breeder, 2 Contest Ribbons

	Bonus: +1 CHA


Base Features


Good Grooming				Groomer Feature
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: After a 10 minute grooming, the target is temporarily at full Loyalty and appears more 
appealing. If they level up without a negative incident within 10 minutes of Good Grooming and have met all previous requirements for evolution, evolution is guaranteed. Loyalty returns to its usual level after 1 hour; repeated use of Good Grooming gradually raises its usual level of Loyalty. 
 
Contest Coating				Groomer Feature
     Static
     Effect: Your Pokemon may have up to 15 points in any Contest Stat. When participating in a 
Contest, you may burn one extra point of Contest appeal than you would usually be able to whenever you would be able to burn a point.








Groomer Features

Agility Training					Groomer Feature
     Prerequisites: Groomer, 4 Ribbons
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon.
     Effect: After a 10 minute Grooming, the target’s Speed Capabilities are +3 for the next 24 hours. 

Blinding Coat					Groomer Feature
     Prerequisites: Groomer, 3 Ribbons
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An adjacent Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If the total is 13 or higher, any time an enemy Pokemon or Trainer would target the Pokemon, they must roll +2 in order to hit during Accuracy Check for the remainder of the encounter. This may not target the same Pokemon more then once per day. 

Contest Breeding					Groomer Feature
     Prerequisites: Groomer
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A hatching Egg.
     Effect: Choose a Contest Stat from one of the Egg’s parents. The Egg hatches with half of the value of the chosen Contest Stat. 

Perfect Contest Breeding			Groomer Feature
     Prerequisites: Groomer, Contest Breeding, 18 CHA
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A hatching Egg.
     Effect: Choose a Contest Stat from one of the Egg’s parents, and then choose a different Contest Stat from the Egg’s other parent. The Egg hatches with either the full value of one of the parents’ Contest Stats or hatches with half of each of the Egg’s parents’ Contest Stats. This Feature replaces Contest Breeding. 

Rising Star						Groomer Feature
     Prerequisites: Groomer, 3 Ribbons
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A pokemon who is leveling up to a level evenly divisible by 5.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If the total is 10 or higher, choose a Contest Stat that the target already has at least 1 point in, and add 2 more points to the Stat. Rising Star can’t raise any specific Contest Stat above 15. 

Sheen Breeding					Groomer Feature
     Prerequisites: Groomer, 21 CHA, 17 WIS
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon who are breeding and have successfully produced an egg.
     Effect: Roll 1d100 and subtract your CHA modifier doubled from the result. If you rolled 0 or under, when the egg hatches, the Pokemon will be Shiny. 
 






Sign Training				Groomer Feature
     Prerequisites: Groomer, Agility Training
     Static
     Effect: Your Pokemon under the effects of Agility Training can use Moves and Shift on your command through non-verbal communication. This could be hand signals, audible cues, or anything that you work out that still requires some action on your part for your Pokemon to interpret. 

Specs Grooming				Groomer Feature
     Prerequisites: Groomer
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Raise the target’s X Combat Stage 1 level. X is Attack, Defence, Special Attack, Special Defence or Speed, but only if the target has a corresponding Contest Ribbon. For X, Beauty Ribbon allows Special Attack; Cool Ribbon allows Attack; Cute Ribbon allows Speed; Tough Ribbon allows Defence or Smart Ribbon allows Special Defence. When using Specs Grooming, choose only one X at a time per encounter. You cannot target the same Pokemon more than once per encounter with Specs Grooming. 
 
Specs Grooming +				Groomer Feature
     Prerequisites: Groomer, 20 CHA, Specs Grooming
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Raise the target’s X Combat Stage 2 levels. X is Attack, Defence, Special Attack, Special Defence or Speed, but only if the target has a corresponding Contest Ribbon. For X, Beauty Ribbon allows Special Attack; Cool Ribbon allows Attack; Cute Ribbon allows Speed; Tough Ribbon allows Defence or Smart Ribbon allows Special Defence. When using Specs Grooming +, choose only one X at a time per 
encounter. You cannot target the same Pokemon more than once per encounter with Specs Grooming+. This Feature replaces Specs Grooming. 
 
You Get It From Me			Groomer Feature
     Prerequisites: Groomer
     Daily
     Target: A hatching egg.
     Effect: Add your CHA modifier to any of the Egg’s Contest Stats as long as you’ve won at least 
1 Ribbon for the Contest type you choose. 

Hatcher


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Breeder, Egg Hatcher, 
	Hatched at least 5 Eggs

	Bonus: +1 CHA

Base Features


This Is How You Do It, Kid		Hatcher Feature
     Static
     Target: A Pokemon you’ve hatched, within at least 20 meters of one of its parents.
     Effect: When the parent Pokemon gains Experience Points, instead it gains half of the experience points it would have gained, then the target gains the other half of the experience points. If both 
parents of a particular target are nearby, you may still only use This Is How You Do It, Kid’s Effect once.

Egg Move Advantage				Hatcher Feature
     Daily
     Target: A hatching egg.
     Effect: Your CHA modifier halved is X. The hatching pokemon learns up to X of their Egg Moves, as long as either parents have the Move(s) on their Level Up or Tutor Move list. These Moves are decided at random. You can only have one instance of any attack. If a pokemon has fewer legal Level Up/Tutor Moves than X, they learn all of the possible Moves. 

	
Hatcher Features

Attitude Blinders				Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A hatching egg.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If the result is 16 or higher, choose 6 Natures and assign each to the numbers 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Roll 1d6; on the result, from 1 to 6, give the hatching egg the assigned Nature.

Attitude Blinders +				Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher, 18 CHA, Attitude Blinders
     Daily - Every 10 Levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A hatching egg.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If the result is 16 or higher, choose a nature and give the hatching pokemon the assigned Nature. This Feature replaces Attitude Blinders. 
  
Birthright						Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher, CHA 16
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A hatching egg.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If the result is higher than 20, the pokemon hatches with the Ability of your choice.
 
Born Strong						Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher, CHA 16
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A hatching egg.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If the result is 13 or higher, the Pokemon hatches with +1 to all of its Speed Capabilities and +1 to its Power Capability. If it evolves, these bonuses carry over to its new stage. This Feature can not raise a Power Capability to 8 or higher.
   
Egg Move Tutor					Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher, 24 CHA
     Daily
     Target: An unevolved pokemon who can learn an egg move and is leveling up 
	to a level evenly divisible by 5.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If the result is higher than 25, the target can be taught an Egg Move it has not yet learned. Egg Move Tutor can only successfully target a Pokemon 4 times.
 
Master Hatcher					Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher, 18 CHA
     Static
     Target: Eggs in the possession of the Breeder.
     Effect: Eggs hatch at 1/3 the rate they would normally hatch at. This Feature replaces Egg Hatcher or Egg Hatcher +.
 

 



 
Natural Move Economy				Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher, CHA 16
     Static
     Effect: Egg Moves and Level Up Moves may be placed in your Pokemon’s “TM/Tutor Move” Move Slots. Moves taught by TMs or Tutors, which appear on your Pokemon’s Egg Move List or Natural Move List, may be placed on you Pokemon’s “Level Up/Egg Move” List.
 
Not Yet, Little One				Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher
     Static
     Effect: If an Egg that you, or one of your allied Trainers, own is starting to hatch, you may prevent it from hatching for up to 48 hours. If you do not own the Egg, you need permission from its owner to prevent it from hatching.
 
Parental Hyperlexia				Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher
     Static
     Effect: You understand your Pokemon above Level 15 that you have hatched as if they are speaking to you in your language. They are equally capable of understanding you through body language as if you were verbally commanding them.
  
Philoprogenitive					Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher
     At-Will
     Effect: If any Pokemon, within your Shift value, that you originally hatched has been successfully hit by a Move or Feature you may Shift as a Free Action to Intercept that Move. You take the damage and effects of that Move or Feature, after subtracting X from the incoming damage, where X is your CHA modifier. You may only use Philoprogenitive once per encounter.
 
Thoroughbred						Hatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Hatcher, 20 CHA
     Static
     Effect: Any Pokemon you hatch, that were also hatched from two Pokemon you own and whose 
parents are of the same species (or evolution lines, including split evolution lines) are “Thoroughbred.” Your Thoroughbred Pokemon gains +30% the amount of experience they would gain normally.

Medic


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Breeder, 
	Field First Aid Kit (650)

	Bonus: +1 WIS

Base Features


Treat Minor Wounds			Medic Feature
     Daily – Every 4 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Heal the target 20 HP.

Muscle Relaxants				Medic Feature
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Paralyzed Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: The target is no longer Paralyzed.




Medic Features

Better Living Through Medicine	Medic Feature
     Prerequisites: Medic, 5 Medic Feats
     Daily - Every 25 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: You may use two Medic Features, two restorative items, or a Medic Feature and a restorative item as a single Trainer Action. Features used through Better Living Through Medicine still count toward their daily uses for that feature.

Medicinal Expert					Medic Feature
     Prerequisites: Medic
     Static
     Effect: Whenever you uses a health restoring item, such as a Potion, or an item that cures a Status 
Affliction, such as an Antidote, it heals an additional amount of HP equal to your WIS Stat.

Pain Killers						Medic Feature
     Prerequisites: Medic, 16 WIS
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Poisoned or Burned Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: The target is cured of Poison or Burn.

Restore Strength					Medic Feature
     Prerequisites: Medic, 20 WIS
     Daily
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Treat the target pokemon as if they have not used any Center Frequency Moves since their last Pokemon Center visit.

Shock Therapy					Medic Feature
     Prerequisites: Medic, Pain Killers
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Frozen or Asleep Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: The target is cured of Frozen or Sleep.

Treat Wounds						Medic Feature
     Prerequisites: Medic
     Daily – Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Heal the target 40 HP.

Treat Major Wounds				Medic Feature
     Prerequisites: Medic, Treat Wounds, 16 WIS
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Heal the target 60 HP.








Treat Serious Wounds				Medic Feature
     Prerequisites: Medic, Treat Wounds, 18 WIS
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Heal the target 80 HP.

Won’t Die On Me					Medic Feature
     Prerequisites: Medic, 22 WIS
     Daily
     Target: A Trainer or Pokemon who failed their Death Saving Throw.
     Effect: The Target may re-roll that savings throw. The Target subtracts 5 from their roll if it is a Trainer, or 25 if it is a Pokemon.

Won’t Die On Me +				Medic Feature
     Prerequisites: Medic, Won’t Die On Me
     Daily
     Target: A Trainer or Pokemon who failed their Death Saving Throw.
     Effect: The Target may re-roll that savings throw. The Target subtracts your Wisdom Stat from their roll. This Feature replaces Won’t Die On Me.




Move Tutor


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Breeder, used at least 
	10 TMs on their own Pokemon

	Bonus: +1 WIS



Base Features


Natural Arrangement			Move Tutor Feature
     Effect: When any of your Pokemon learn a Tutor or TM Move, you may place it on your 
Pokemon’s Natural Move list. When doing so, you may only place up to two Moves that would 
normally be on your Pokemon’s Tutor/TM Move list onto its Natural Move list.

Tutor Pushing				Move Tutor Feature
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A pokemon. (1 Push Point)
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 15, chose a Move from the Tutor Move list that the target pokemon can learn. Teach the target that Tutor Move as if you had used a TM. Once you successfully use Tutor Pushing on a pokemon, Tutor Pushing may not target that pokemon ever again.


	Mechanic: Pokemon gain one “Push Point” every 5 levels. When a trainer acquires a 
Pokemon, it retroactively gains all unspent Push Points for all of its previous;y earned levels. To use certain Move Tutor Features, the targeted Pokemon must have a certain amount Push Points. Upon the successful use of certain Move Tutor Features, those Push Points are expended. Move Tutor 
Features that use Push Points, say so in the “Target” Line of the Feature.


Move Tutor Features


Capability Pushing			Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequisites: Move Tutor, 16 WIS, taught or created TMs for 
	5 moves that grant changes to capabilities
     Daily
     Target: A Pokemon (0 Push Points)
     Effect: Choose a Move on the targeted Pokemon’s Level-up, Egg, TM or Tutor list that grants or 
modifies a Capability that is not Aura. The Pokemon gains that Capability. Capability Pushing may not target that pokemon ever again.

Elemental Unlock				Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequsites: Move Tutor, 21 WIS
     One Time Use Only – After taking the feature, you gain one additional use, 
	per 8 levels gained afterwards.
     Target: A pokemon (3 Push Points)
     Effect: Choose an Elemental Type. That pokemon can now learn TMs of that Elemental Type, 
regardless of its other types. Elemental Unlock may not target that pokemon ever again. You may take Elemental Unlock up to 3 times.

HM Smith						Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequisites: Move Tutor, 20 WIS, used an HM before
     Daily
     Target: A TM.
     Effect: Pay 8,000 . Change a TM in to an HM.

Physical Pushing				Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequisites: Move Tutor, a pokemon with an Attack stat of 30 or higher
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A pokemon (2 Push Points)
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 15, chose a TM that teaches a Move that uses the Attack Stat as long as the target pokemon can learn that TM. Teach the target that TM as if you had used a TM. Once you successfully use Physical Pushing on a pokemon, Physical Pushing may not target that pokemon ever again.

Special Pushing				Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequisites: Move Tutor, a pokemon with a Special Attack stat of 30 or higher
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A pokemon (2 Push Points)
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 15, chose a TM that teaches a Move that uses the Special Attack Stat as long as the target pokemon can learn that TM. Teach the target that TM as if you had used a TM. Once you successfully use Special Pushing on a pokemon, Special Pushing may not target that pokemon ever again.










Status Pushing			Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequisites: Move Tutor
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A pokemon (2 Push Points)
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 15, choose a TM that teaches a Move that does not apply the Attack or Special Attack Stat that the target pokemon can learn. Teach the target that TM as if you had used a TM. Once you successfully use Status Pushing on a pokemon, Status 
Pushing may not target that pokemon ever again.

TM King					Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequisites: Move Tutor, TM Smith, TM Pushing
     Static
     Effect: Remove the following line from TM Maker’s Effect: You may not create the same TM more than once with this Feature. Remove the following line from TM Smith’s Effect: You may not create a TM with the same Move more than once with this Feature. Remove the following line from TM Pushing’s 
Effect: You may never select that TM again with TM pushing.

TM Maker					Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequisites: Move Tutor, 18 WIS, successfully used Move Tutor Features at least 10 times
     Daily
     Effect: Pay 1500 , roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 20, chose a TM you’ve Pushed onto a pokemon. You create that TM. You may not create the same TM more than once with this Feature.

TM Pushing				Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequisites: Move Tutor, 16 WIS, 
	Status Pushing, Physical Pushing or Special Pushing
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A pokemon (2 Push Points)
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 15, chose a TM from TMs 1 to 95 or from A1 to A6 that the target pokemon can learn. Teach the target that TM as if you had used a TM. You may never select that TM again with TM pushing.

TM Smith					Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequisites: Move Tutor, TM Maker
     Daily
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Pay 1500 , roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 20, chose a Move that isn’t on the TM list that one of your pokemon can perform. You create a TM with that Move. Give it any number above 101, or add a letter (A-Z) to a number to give it an unique identification. You may not 
create a TM with the same Move more than once with this Feature.

Tutor Capacity			Move Tutor Feature
     Prerequisites: Move Tutor, Used Tutor Pushing on 5 Pokemon
     Static
     Effect: Remove the following line from Tutor Pushing’s Effect: Once you successfully use Tutor 
Pushing on a pokemon, Tutor Pushing may not target that pokemon ever again.

Capture Specialist


	Class Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	13 DEX, 13 INT
	
	Bonuses: +1 DEX +1 INT
	Penalties: -2 CON


Base Features


Capture Point		Capture Specialist Feature
     Static
     Trigger: You throw a Poke Ball.
     Effect: Subtract either half of your DEX modifier or half of your INT modifier from your d100 rolls when throwing any Poke Ball.

Curve Ball			Capture Specialist Feature
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You throw a Poke Ball.
     Effect:  You may deal X damage to the target you are throwing a Poke Ball at where X is your DEX modifier. The target’s Defense or Special Defense cannot reduce this damage. This Feature cannot be used when throwing Pokeballs as part of an Arms Attack, but may be used when releasing a 
Pokemon or attempting a Capture roll, or when throwing a Poke Ball specifically to trigger Curve Ball.


Capture Specialist Features

Apricorn Ball		Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisite: Capture Specialist, Poke Ball Repair
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Any Apricorn
     Effect: Roll 1d20, and add your INT modifiers. On a result of 11 or better, you change the target 
Apricorn into a Basic Ball. 

Bean Ball  			Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, 20 DEX
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You use Curve Ball
     Effect: Roll 1d20. On a result of 11 or higher, you score a critical hit, doubling your damage dealt. 
Additionally, on a result of 17 or higher, the target is flinched. You may apply the bonuses from critical hits and flinching to the capture roll.

Catch Combo  		Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, 18 Dex
     At-Will
     Trigger: An allied trainer or pokemon rolls 17-20 on Accuracy Check while targeting a wild Pokemon.
     Effect: You may throw a pokeball against the targeted enemy immediately after the triggering attack is resolved. You may use Catch Combo only once per encounter. 

Capture Point +		Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, 16 INT, 16 DEX
     Static
     Trigger: You throw a Poke Ball.
     Effect: Subtract both half of your DEX modifier and half of your INT modifier from your d100 rolls when throwing any Poke Ball. This Feature replaces Capture Point.

Capture Point Max	Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, Capture Point +, 20 DEX, 20 INT
     Static
     Trigger: You throw a Poke Ball.
     Effect: Subtract your DEX modifier and your INT modifier from your d100 roll when throwing any Poke Ball. This Feature replaces Capture Point +.

False Swipe Tutor  	Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, a pokemon with the Move False Swipe, 18 INT
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon who is leveling up to a level evenly divisible by 5.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If the total exceeds 15, the Pokemon learns the Move, False Swipe. Once you successfully use False Swipe Tutor on a Pokemon, False Swipe Tutor may not target that Pokemon ever again.








Informed Tracker		Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisite: Capture Specialist
     Daily
     Target: A Route, cave, or other wild area.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. On a roll of 15 or higher, you identify the area. You know which pokemon are known to commonly inhabit identified areas, and if any apricorns commonly grow in the area.

Informed Tracker +	Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisite: Capture Specialist, Informed Tracker, 16 INT
     Daily
     Target: A Route, cave, or other wild area.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. On a roll of 12 or higher, you identify the area. You know which pokemon are known to commonly inhabit identified areas, and if any apricorns commonly grow in the area. On a roll of 20 or higher, you know of any rare pokemon that may be said to inhabit the area, and subtract 10 from any Capture Rolls made identified areas for the rest of the day. This Feature replaces Informed Tracker.

Member’s Discount	Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, Membership Card (2000)
     Static
     Effect: You gain a 20% Discount from all regular PokeMart products. Whenever you spend 2000 or more a single purchase, you get a complimentary Premier Ball.

Poke Ball Repair		Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, Poke Ball Tool Box (1250)
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Any Poke Ball that has failed to capture a pokemon and broke.
     Effect: Roll d20 and add your DEX and INT modifiers to the roll. If the total exceeds 15, the Poke Ball is fixed and is treated as if it had not broken. 
 
Poke Ball Smith 		Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, Poke Ball Repair                     
     At-Will
     Effect: Create a Basic Ball (100), a Great Ball (250), or an Ultra Ball (500). 

Weighted Net			Capture Specialist Feature
     Prerequisites: Capture Specialist
     At-Will
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer
     Effect: Pay X multiplied by 100, with a maximum value of 12 for X.  You create a weighted net which can be thrown at a target to reduce its movement capabilities by X minus the target’s Power capability. If targeting a trainer, use half their STR modifier as their power capability.  A target may spend its full turn, taking no actions, to roll 1d20, adding their power capability. On a result of 12 or greater, they break free from the net. Throwing the net is an AC4 attack, and has a range of 4 meters.

Artificer


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Capture Specialist, 17 DEX

	Bonus: +1 DEX


Base Features


Type Booster				Artificer Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: You create a Type Booster that improves the power of any single Type of your choice. Name the item whatever you’d like. Pokemon add their STAB value to attacks of the chosen type. It costs 800 to use Type Booster. 

Weaponsmith				Artificer Feature
     Daily
     Effect: Over 10 hours, which need not be spent consecutively, you create a Weapon.  The Weapon is created with a level equal to your Trainer Level plus Xd6, where X is your DEX modifier, up to a maximum of level 100. The weapon will deal additional damage on an attack equal to the STAB bonus of a Pokemon of its level. Additionally, you may include up to two  Crafting Materials into a single weapon. It costs 1500 to use Weaponsmith. 


Artificer Features

Apprentice Craftsman			Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer
     At-Will
     Target: Items
     Effect: Light Clay (2500), Quick Claw (2800), Flame Orb (3200), or Toxic Orb (3200). 

Elemental Armaments			Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer, 18 DEX
     Static
     Effect: You may use any Non-Plate Type Booster as a crafting Material for Weaponsmith.  This will cause the Weapon to deal Elemental damage matching that of the Type-Booster used, but will lower the Weapon’s default Damage Base by 1.  You may include only a single Type Booster into a Weapon.  

Expert Craftsman				Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer, Apprentice Craftsman
     At-Will
     Effect: Create a Bright Powder (4000), Expert Belt (4000), Shell Bell (3500), or Wide Lens (3500). 

Flute Smith					Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer
     At-Will
     Target: Items
     Effect: Choose Confusion, Infatuation, or Sleep. You create a flute that, when used, cures the chosen Status on all Pokemon or Trainers within 3 meters. A flute may only be activated once per day. It costs 550 to use Flute Smith. 

Incense Maker				Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer, 16 DEX	
     At-Will
     Target: Items. 
     Effect: Create a Full Incense, Lax Incense, or Luck Incense. It costs 1200 to use Incense Maker. 

Keepsake Builder				Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer, evolved a pokemon that used a held item to evolve
     At-Will
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create an Item that does nothing in battle, but it can serve as a replacement for a pokemon’s requirement to evolve if they would need a held item. The item can be named whatever you’d like. Like all other held items that influence evolution, the item disappears after the pokemon evolves. It costs 500  to use the Keepsake Builder Feature. 

Master Craftsman				Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer, Expert Craftsman, 20 DEX
     At-Will
     Target: Items
     Effect: Create a Focus Band (4500), Focus Sash (4800), or Life Orb (5500). 





Protection Charm				Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer
     Daily
     Effect: You create a Charm that, when activated, grants the trainer wearing it a Pokemon Ability for X hours, where X is your DEX modifier at the time the Charm was created. The Charm may not be 
activated for another 24 hours. The ability granted depends on the Item used to craft the Charm, as 
detailed below. The required Item is destroyed after using Ability Charm. A person may benefit from only a single charm on any given day.
  - Razor Claw: Battle Armor     	- Metal Coat: Immunity
  - King’s Rock: Inner Focus     	- Electririzer: Limber
  - Magmarizer: Magma Armor      	- Oval Stone: Oblivious
  - Reaper Cloth: Own Tempo      	- Protector: Sturdy
  - Dragon Scale: Vital Spirit   		- Deepseascale/Deepseatooth: Water Veil

Stat Boosters				Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer
     At-Will
     Target: Items
     Effect: Choose between Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense or Speed. You create a Held Item that, when released from a Poke Ball, the holder’s chosen Stat is raised 1 Combat Stage. Name the Item whatever you’d like. It costs 1000  to use the Stat Boosters Feature. 

Stonesmith					Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer, Weaponsmith
     Static
     Effect: You may use the listed Stones as crafting Materials for Weaponsmith. Once Daily, on a roll of 16-20 on an Arms Attack using the weapon, you may activate the Stone as a Free Action to cause its 
listed effect to the attack’s target. Only the first target is affected if there are multiple targets due to a 
Feature.
  - Fire Stone: Burn      	- Shiny Stone: Critical Hit   	- Water Stone: Confusion
  - Leaf Stone: Poison  	- Thunderstone: Paralyze  	- Everstone: The target’s defense is lowered by 1 CS

Stonesmith +					Artificer Feature
     Prerequisites: Artificer, Stonesmith
     Static
     Effect:  You may use the listed Stones as crafting Materials for Weaponsmith. Once Daily, you may activate the Stone’s effect.
	- Dawn: You may activate to use an Arm Attack against an adjacent target as  an Interrupt, but 			lower the Damage Base of your attack by 2.
	- Dusk: You may activate on a critical hit to have the Sniper ability for that attack.
	- Moon: You may activate when declaring an Arms Attack to ignore all Evasion on the target, and 
		bypass Protect or Detect.
	- Sun: You may activate when you hit with an arms attack to deal Special damage rather than 
		Physical damage. 

Collector


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Capture Specialist, made
	12 Pokemon captures

	Bonus: +1 DEX


Base Features


Checklist				Collector Feature
     Static
     Effect: From now on, every 8 different species of Pokemon you own will gain you a trainer level. Your Checklist Value is X, where X is the number of trainer levels you have gained in this way plus your DEX modifier.
 
Capture Maniac			Collector Feature
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You make a Capture Roll
     Effect: Subtract your Checklist Value from your Capture Roll.


Collector Features

Assistance					Collector Feature
     Prerequisites: Collector, Capture Point Max
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Ally makes a Capture Roll.
     Effect: Your Ally may subtract your Checklist Value from their Capture Roll, and benefits from your Capture Point Max Feature. 

Capture Maniac +				Collector Feature
     Prerequisites: Collector, 18 DEX
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You make a Capture Roll
     Effect: Subtract your Checklist Value from your Capture Roll.  This Feature replaces Capture Maniac.
 
Cosplay						Collector Feature
     Prerequisites: Collector, 16 DEX, Costume Kit (400)
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: You disguise yourself as a pokemon and may approach any wild Pokemon with an intelligence capability of 4 or lower. The pokemon you approach is not instantly provoked but may be startled, and will likely react to you as it would to a typical member of the species you are imitating. You may attempt to befriend the Wild as long as you don’t provoke it.
 
Multi Ball					Collector Feature
     Prerequisites: Collector, 16 DEX
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: You may throw two pokeballs at the same time as a Trainer Action. You must target a different Pokemon with each pokeball.
 
Obsessive Compulsive			Collector Feature
     Prerequisites: Collector, 16 DEX
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You throw a Poke Ball that fails to capture your Quarry.
     Effect: Throw any additional Poke Ball immediately. You may not throw the same Poke Ball that failed on the same turn, even if it was repaired. You may use Obsessive Compulsive only once per turn.
 
Rarest Prize					Collector Feature
     Prerequisites: Collector, 5 Collector Features
     Static
     Effect: Any shiny pokemon count as two new species for the purposes of leveling and Collector 
Features, instead of their normal species. Any legendary pokemon, or pokemon with naturally occurring type shifts, count as Four new species for the purposes of leveling and Collector Features, instead of their normal species.
 








Silent Stalker			Collector Feature
     Prerequisite: Collector, 22 DEX, caught Pokemon in 8 different routes.
     Static
     Target: A Route, cave, or other wild area.
     Effect: You make no noise as if you had the Stealth Capability, as long as you move no more than half of your max Overland Speed during your turn.

Stalk the Prey			Collector Feature
     Prerequisite: Collector, Silent Stalker
     Daily – Every 25 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: For the next X rounds, where X is your DEX modifier, if at the end of your turn you have moved no more than half of your max Overland Speed, you gain the Blender capability until the 
beginning of your next turn.

Unshakeable				Collector Feature
     Prerequisites: Collector
     Static
     Effect: You and your Pokemon are immune to all effects, excluding damage, from Moves used by other Pokemon which would force you to escape or switch Pokemon.
 
Wilderness Tracker		Collector Feature
     Prerequisites: Collector, Informed Tracker+
     Daily
     Target: A Route, cave, or other wild area.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your DEX and INT modifiers. If the total exceeds 20, you initate an 
encounter with Pokemon you know to be in the area.  If the total exceeds 25, a pokemon you have not captured appears during the encounter.
 
Zeal						Collector Feature
     Prerequisites: Collector, 6 Collector Features
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You use Capture Maniac or Capture Maniac+
     Effect: Subtract an additional X from your roll, where X is +1 for every 8 different species of Pokemon you own.

Engineer


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Capture Specialist, 16 INT
	(5,000 to build Mech Arm)
	
	Bonus: +1 INT


Base Features


Pokedex Modifications  		Engineer Feature
     Static
     Effect: You may alter the Pokedex to have a Radar that works at a great range. You may alter that value from anywhere between a 5m radius to a 50m radius. The Pokedex can also identify how many wilds the radar detects and which direction they are. The radar cannot detect Pokemon who are not moving.

Mech Arm  					Engineer Feature
     Static
     Effect: You now have a mechanical arm you can wear over either your right or left arm. Add 2 points to your Strength stat. The Mech Arm has extending poles that can support the Arm’s weight when you are getting tired. The arm weighs 40 pounds.



Engineer Features
            
Bullet Punch  				Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer, Mech Arm
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the move Bullet Punch. Use either your DEX or INT modifiers as your Attack stat.
            
Drill Run  					Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer, Mech Arm
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the move Drill Run. Use either your DEX or INT modifiers as your Attack stat.
            
Hacker  						Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer, 20 INT
     Static
     Effect: You can access any information on any computer and make the computer do whatever you want, as long as the computer is capable of the thing you want it to do. If an encrypter wishes to contest hacking, they must have at least 20 INT. If they do, they must roll higher than you do on 1d20, adding their INT modifier while you add your INT modifier. GM decides the contesting stats. If they succeed, you may not use whatever you tried to hack into.
            
Learning Curve  				Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer
     Daily 
     Trigger: You make a roll that uses your INT modifier. 
     Effect: You may add X to your INT modifier for the next five minutes. X is the total of different 
Pokemon owned in your Pokedex divided by 10.
            
Meteor Mash  				Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer, Mech Arm
     Daily 
     Target: A trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the move Meteor Mash. Use either your DEX or INT modifiers as your Attack stat.
            
Pokeball Traps  				Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer, Remote Control and Camera set (1000)
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day. 
     Target: Your Pokeballs.
     Effect: At any given time, you may have X of your Pokeballs marked to be usable by Pokeball traps. X is your INT modifier. Applying or removing a modification to make a Pokeball usable with Pokeball Traps takes 10 minutes. Set or throw your Pokeball down anywhere. At any time you may, as a trainer action, trigger a Pokeball set by Pokeball Traps to either capture an adjacent Pokemon if it is empty or to release your Pokemon from a filled Pokeball. You may view the battle and give orders to your Pokemon released this way through a camera on your Pokeball.
            
Poke Ball Arm Cannon  		Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer, Mech Arm, Launcher Attachment (800) 
     Static
     Effect: Your Mech Arm can now fire Poke Balls, to send out your own or capture wilds. When firing any Poke Ball at a wild, subtract 12 from the Poke Ball’s capture rate. Also the Poke Ball deals 1d8 
damage to the wild that cannot be reduced by Defense or Special Defense.




            
Poke Bots  					Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer, 20 INT
     At-Will
     Effect: You can make small remote controlled pokemon robots for 1000 that is .5m tall, of any species or general appearance of your choice. It can move 5m per turn and can hold any small object. Pokemon with the Wired capability that you own do not need to make a roll to possess one of your Pokebots. By spending additional money upon each use of this feature, you may add additional abilities to the Pokebot (up to three abilities per Pokebot). Basic Pokebots have 20 HP and take Super-Effective damage from Fire, Electric, Ground and Rock Moves, unless possessed by a Wired Pokemon, in which case the 
Pokebot’s Type is the same as the possessing Pokemon. 
     -Additional Features: Camera (1000), Video Camera (2000), On-Board GPS (1500), Radio (1000), Computer (2500) Motion Sensing Alarm System (1750), Additional HP (1 per 1 HP, up to a maximum of 150), Self-Detonation (500) Deals 1d20 Normal damage in a 1m Burst against Defense, destroys the Pokebot. (500 more for each additional 1d20, up to a maximum of 3d20) (250 more per additional 1m of Burst, up to a maximum 5m) (500 to change its damage to Steel, Fire or Electric Type). Only one Pokebot may be detonated per turn. Detonation ejects any Pokemon possessing the Pokebot and sets them to -50% HP.

Raft Arm 					Engineer Feature 
     Prerequisites: Engineer, Mech Arm, Buoy-Propeller Attachment (800) 
     Static
     Effect: Your Mech Arm is now buoyant and has a compartment that reveals a propeller. In water, you can move 1 meters per second or 10m per round.

Scanner  					Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer, Mech Arm, Scouter Attachment (1250)
     Static
     Effect: You can see a percentage when you look at a Pokemon that represents how much of its total HP it has remaining.

Vehicle Builder  			Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer, 5 Engineer Features
     Daily - Every 6 levels gained, the GM should take off 1/10th of the expected time to build the vehicle. 
     Effect: You may build a vehicle using the following price guidelines. Your GM will determine how 
quickly you make the vehicle. Build it to look like whatever you’d like. 
	Power Source 			||~ Man/Pokemon 		||~ Gas 		||~ Electric 		||
	Price 				|| Free 			|| 300 		|| 600 			||
	Passenger Count 			||~ 1 	||~ 2 	||~ 3 	||~ 4 	||~ Each Additional Count 		||
	Price 				|| 250   	|| 500 	|| 750 	|| 1000	|| 250 				|| 
	Vehicle Size			||~0-2 sq meters	||~ 2.1-4 sq meters	||~ 4.1-6 sq meters || Max 10 sq meters	||
	Price 				|| 2000 		|| 4000 		|| 6000 	                || 2000 per 2 sq m	||
	Vehicle Type 			||~	Land	||~ Water 	||~ Underground 	||~ Sky 			||
	Price 				|| 1000 		|| 2500 	|| 5000 		|| 7500 			||
     For Vehicle Type, you may combine the prices to combine the capabilities and have any combination of the Vehicle Types. For the vehicle’s HP, pay 1 for every 1 HP you’d like it to have. Your vehicle cannot have more then 4,500 HP. It is up to you and your GM to determine when your vehicle is out of power based on what your final product is. For the vehicle’s speed, keep its Power Source in mind. A man 
powered vehicle might not go as fast a Pokemon pwoered vehicle or Electric. Work with your GM to determine the vehicle’s speed per hour and speed per round of an encounter.

Weapon Arm  					Engineer Feature
     Prerequisites: Engineer, Mech Arm, Weapon Attachment (500 ) 
     Static
     Effect: You may attach a Melee Weapon Attachment to your Mech Arm.  A default Weapon 
Attachment costs 500, but you may attach Artificer-Crafted Weapon Attachments.  You always have the “Weapon of Choice” Feature for Arms Attacks made using your Mech Arm, and you may add your INT modifier to damage rolls instead of STR, DEX, or CON.  You cannot be disarmed of your Weapon 
Attachment, and it may be crafted as being retractable into your Mech Arm.


Juggler


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Capture Specialist, 17 DEX
	Juggling Set (350)

	Bonus: +1 DEX


Base Features


Throwing Master				Juggler Feature
     Static
     Effect: You gain the feat “Weapon of Choice” in the Short-Ranged weapon of your choice. You may throw Short-Ranged Weapons and Pokeballs an additional X meters, where X is your DEX modifier.
 
Quick Switch					Juggler Feature
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon Faints; or an opponent sends out a Pokemon
     Effect: You may return and send out a Pokemon as a Free Action. You may perform this Feature on your turn without a Trigger. 


Juggler Features

Bounce Juggle				Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler, Bounce Shot
     At-Will
     Trigger: You use a Juggler Feature that removes an item from your possession.
     Effect: The item immediately returns to your hand after the effect is triggered.

Bounce Shot					Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler, 5 Juggler Features
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: A Thrown item hits its intended target or area.
     Effect: The thrown item is bounced a number of meters equal to your DEX modifier in any direction. This can cause your Features to hit targets that are otherwise out of range or to hit a second target. 
   
Emergency Release			Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler, 18 DEX
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: You may Release a Pokemon as an Interrupt. 
 
Enter Like Lightning			Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler, 20 DEX
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You release a Pokemon from its Pokeball
     Effect: Use the move Flash, centered around where you released your Pokemon. For this round, add your DEX modifier to your Pokemon’s Speed Stat for the purposes of determining initiative. 
  
Fast Draw					Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler
     At-Will
     Effect: Once per encounter, you may use an Item on yourself or an allied Trainer or Pokemon as a Free Action. 
  
First Blood					Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler, Enter Like Lightning
     Daily
     Trigger: You release a pokemon from its pokeball
     Effect: Your pokemon may use a Move with the Dash keyword as an interrupt as soon as it is sent out. Moves used in this way have the additional effect of pushing the target 5 meters. This consumes your Command action for the round. 
  
Fling 						Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: Use the move Fling. Any item in your possession can count as a Held Item when you use this Move. Use your DEX modifier as your ATK Stat. 


   




No Hands!					Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler
     Static
     Effect: You may hide up to 3 Pokeball-sized or smaller items on your person which are undetectable by search. You may activate pokeballs without the use of your hands. 
 
Pokeball Cascade				Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler
     Static
     Effect: Pokemon you own add half of your DEX mod to their speeds for the purpose of calculating initiative on the turn they are sent out. 
  
Quick Switch + 				Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon Faints; or an opponent sends out a Pokemon
     Effect: You may return and send out a Pokemon as a Free Action. You may perform this Feature on your turn without a Trigger. 
  
Round Trip 					Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler, 22 Dex, 4 other Juggler features
     Daily - every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon uses a move.
     Effect: You may immediately switch your Pokemon that just performed a move for another of your Pokemon. You may not issue commands to this Pokemon.
  
Tag In						Juggler Feature
     Prerequisites: Juggler, 5 Juggler Features
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You recall a Pokemon
     Effect: The next Pokemon you send out is treated as if the recalled Pokemon had used Baton Pass on it.

Poke Ball Designer


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Capture Specialist, 
	Poke Ball Smith

	Bonus: +1 INT


Base Features


Advanced Design			Poke Ball Designer Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: You create a Dusk, Dive, Heal, Luxury, Net, Nest, Quick, Repeat, or Timer Ball. It costs 400 to use Advanced Design. 

Conditional Advantage	Poke Ball Designer Feature
     Static
     Trigger: Your throw a Pokeball
     Effect:  If you would subtract an additional amount due to special circumstances defined by the Pokeball’s type - such as when throwing a Dusk Ball at night - you may subtract your INT modifier from the capture roll. 

	Mechanics: All Pokeballs have, by default, a single Seal Slot on which seals can be applied. 
Using their Jail Break feature, Pokeball Designers may add an additional two slots for a total of three.


Poke Ball Designer Features

Apricorn Shift			Poke Ball Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Pokeball Designer, Apricorn Smith
     Daily 
     Target: Any two Apricorns.
     Effect: Combine the targeted Apricorns into a a single Apricorn of your choice. 

Apricorn Smith			Poke Ball Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Pokeball Designer, Apricorn Ball
     At-Will
     Target: An Apricorn
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier.  It the total exceeds 12, you change the target Apricorn into its corresponding Pokeball. If the total is 11 or below, you ruin the targeted Apricorn. 

Ball Modification: Habitat	Poke Ball Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Poke Ball Designer
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Dive Ball
     Effect: Add one of the following keywords to the targeted Dive Ball: Arctic, Mountain, Desert, 
Grassland, Rainforest, Forest, Tundra, Taiga, Marsh, Beach, Freshwater, Urban or Cave. Instead of when underwater or underground, the modified Poke Ball subtracts 15 from its Capture Rolls when thrown in an area that corresponds with the keyword chosen. It costs 200 to use Ball Modification: Habitat. 

Ball Modification: Power	Poke Ball Designer Feature	
     Prerequisites: Poke Ball Designer
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Nest Ball
     Effect: You change the Nest Ball into a Power Ball. It retains the conditional capture modifier of a Nest Ball, but additionally, when a Power Ball captures a target, roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. On a result of 15 or better, the captured pokemon is raised 1d4 levels upon capture. On a result of 25 or better, the target is raised 2d4 levels upon capture instead. It costs 500 to use Ball Modification: Power. 

Ball Modification: Type	Poke Ball Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Poke Ball Designer
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Net Ball
     Effect: You change the Net Ball into a Earth Ball, Haunt Ball, Solid Ball, Heat Ball, Mystic Ball, Air Ball, Mold Ball, or Fine Ball. The properties of these unique balls are identical to the Net Ball, but instead of affecting Bug and Water types like the Net Ball, these Balls correspond to the following types. Earth Ball; Grass and Ground; Haunt Ball, Dark and Ghost; Solid Ball, Rock and Steel; Heat Ball, Electric and Fire; Mystic Ball, Dragon and Psychic; Air Ball, Flying and Ice; Mold Ball, Poison and Fighting; Fine Ball, Normal and Fairy. 











Booster Seal				Poke Ball Designer Feature	
     Prerequisites: Poke Ball Designer
     At-Will
     Target: Any Ball
     Effect: Choose any numbered Capability. You create a Booster Seal that corresponds to the chosen capability. Pokemon kept within a pokeball with a Booster Seal gain a +2 bonus to the chosen 
capability if you chose a Movement capability, or +1 if you chose Intelligence,  Jump, or Power.  It costs 300 to use Booster Seal. Up to three Booster Seals may be applied to a pokeball, but each must raise a 
different capability. 

Combat Seal				Poke Ball Designer Feature	
     Prerequisites: Poke Ball Designer
     At-Will
     Target: Any Ball
     Effect: Choose a pokemon stat other than HP.  You create a Stat Seal of the chosen stat. Whenever a pokemon with full HP is released from a pokeball with a Stat Seal, the corresponding stat is raised by 1 combat stage. It costs 500 to use Stat Seal. Only one Stat Seal may be applied to a pokeball. 

Contest Seal				Poke Ball Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Poke Ball Designer
     At-Will
     Target: Any Ball
     Effect:  You create a Contest Seal. Stat. Pokemon captured in a ball with a Contest Seal get a +1d2 
bonus during the Introduction Stage of a contest. It costs 500 to use Contest Seal. Up to three Contest Seals may be applied to a pokeball. 

Jail Break				Poke Ball Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Poke Ball Designer				
     At-Will
     Target: Any Pokeball
     Effect:  You may create an additional Seal slot on the target pokeball, or you may remove a Seal 
thereby opening up a Seal slot. Seals removed in this way are broken and cannot be repaired. You may use this feature to create up to 2 additional Seal slots, up to a maximum of 3 slots. 
 
Save Ball				Poke Ball Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Pokeball Designer, Apricorn Smith
     Daily 
     Effect: Combine a White Apricorn, Red Apricorn, Blue Apricorn, Black Apricorn, Pink Apricorn, Green Apricron and a Yellow Apricorn to make a Save Ball. A Save Ball can capture a pokemon who was felled on the last turn of an encounter. It has no Capture Rate bonuses or penalties. 

Snagger


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Capture Specialist,
	Snag Machine (1,800 to build)

	Bonus: +1 INT



Base Features


Loyalty Meter  				Snagger Feature
     At-Will
     Target: An Owned Pokemon.
     Effect: By pointing your Snag Machine at an owned Pokemon, you may determine the Loyalty of that Pokemon. Loyalty is measured from 0 to 4. Pokemon with Loyalty 0 dislike their trainer, and/or is commonly used for attacking defenseless Pokemon or people. Pokemon with Loyalty 1 are newly caught, previously wild, Pokemon who don’t trust their trainer and/or are used to commit crimes. Pokemon with Loyalty 2 Like their trainer or were traded to their trainer but are used to commit crimes. Pokemon with Loyalty 3 love their trainers and/or were hatched by their trainers. Pokemon with Loyalty 4 have unbreakable bonds with their trainer.

Snag!  						Snagger Feature
     Daily
     Target: An Owned Pokemon with loyalty 0 or 1.
     Effect: Throw a Poke Ball using your Snag Machine as if the target is a wild Pokemon and roll your 1d100 capture roll, subtracting an additional 5 from your check. If you beat the target’s Capture Rate you have captured the target. The Pokemon is mistrustful towards you but just as mistrusting and just as trainable as any wild you would have caught in the wild.

Snagger Features

Hate Seeker					Snagger Feature
     Prerequisites: Snagger, 17 INT
     Static
     Effect: When using Snag!, subtract an additional 3 from your roll if your target has Loyalty 1 or 
subtract an additional 10 from your roll if your target has Loyalty 0.

Rescued Resolve				Snagger Feature
     Prerequisites: Snagger, an owned Pokemon with Loyalty 4 who you’ve Snagged
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon with Loyalty 4 who you’ve Snagged.
     Effect: Whenever a Target deals damage, they deal an additional X damage, where X is your INT modifier.

Rescuer						Snagger Feature
     Prerequisites: Snagger, an owned Pokemon with Loyalty 4 who you’ve Snagged
     Static
     Effect: When you are using Snag! on a Pokemon with Loyalty 0, it may have Loyalty 2 if you capture it and you want it to.

Shadow Berserk				Snagger Feature
     Prerequisites: Snagger, a Pokemon who was once another Trainer’s Pokemon
     Daily
     Target: Your Owned Pokemon with Loyalty 0, 1 or 2.
     Effect: The target immediately uses the Move Submission, but when applying Weakness/Resistances, treat Submission as having no Elemental Type, hitting for neutral damage. The target may not perform another Move during this round of combat. Using Shadow Berserk makes a Pokemon more prone to disliking its trainer.

Shadow Blaze					Snagger Feature
     Prerequisites: Snagger, a Fire-Type Pokemon who was once another Trainer’s Pokemon
     Daily
     Target: Your Owned Pokemon with Loyalty 0, 1 or 2.
     Effect: The target immediately uses the Move Flamethrower, but when applying Weakness/
Resistances, treat Flamethrower as having no Elemental Type, hitting for neutral damage. The target may not perform another Move during this round of combat. Using a Shadow Blaze makes a Pokemon more prone to disliking its trainer.

Shadow Bolt					Snagger Feature
     Prerequisites: Snagger, an Electric-Type Pokemon who was once another Trainer’s Pokemon
     Daily
     Target: Your Owned Pokemon with Loyalty 0, 1 or 2.
     Effect: The target immediately uses the Move Thunderbolt, but when applying Weakness/Resistances, treat Thunderbolt as having no Elemental Type, hitting for neutral damage. The target may not perform another Move during this round of combat. Using  Shadow Bolt makes a Pokemon more prone to 
disliking its trainer.






Shadow Chill					Snagger Feature
     Prerequisites: Snagger, an Ice-Type Pokemon who was once another Trainer’s pokemon
     Daily
     Target: Your Owned Pokemon with Loyalty 0, 1 or 2.
     Effect: The target immediately uses the Move Ice Beam, but when applying Weakness/Resistances, treat Ice Beam as having no Elemental Type, hitting for neutral damage. The target may not perform 
another Move during this round of combat. Using Shadow Chill makes a Pokemon more prone to disliking its trainer.

Shadow Smash					Snagger Feature
     Prerequisites: Snagger, a Fighting-Type Pokemon who was once another Trainer’s Pokemon
     Daily
     Target: Your Owned Pokemon with Loyalty 0, 1 or 2.
     Effect: The target immediately uses the Move Brick Break, but when applying Weakness/Resistances, treat Brick Break as having no Elemental Type, hitting for neutral damage. The target may not perform another Move during this round of combat. Using a Shadow Smash makes a Pokemon more prone to disliking its trainer.

Snag Machine Upgrade			Snagger Feature
     Prerequisites: Snagger, (6,000)
     Static
     Effect: The Feature Snag! now has “Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature 
another time per day.” Instead of “Daily.”

Subtle Break					Snagger Feature
     Prerequisites: Snagger, a Pokemon who was once another Trainer’s Pokemon
     Daily
     Target: A Pokemon with Loyalty 2.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If you roll 20 or higher, you may target the Pokemon with Loyalty 2 for the next 3 rounds with Snag!

Trapper


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Capture Specialist, 18 DEX

	Bonus: +1 DEX

Base Features


Big Game Hunting    			Trapper Feature
     At-Will
     Target: A Wild Pokemon
     Effect: Name the Target as your Quarry. When calculating the Catch Rate of your Quarry, their level is considered to be reduced by X. X is equal to half your DEX modifier. You may only have one Quarry at a time, and may only declare or change your Quarry at the start of a round.

Lasso						Trapper Feature
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Target: A Pokemon or Trainer
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your DEX modifier. On a roll of 12 or higher, the target is Lassoed.  A Lassoed target cannot move than 6 meters away from you.  A Lassoed pokemon may attempt to end the effect by forfeiting its turn, if it is not Confused, Asleep, or Knocked Out. It then rolls 1d20 plus their Power Capability. On a roll of 14 or higher, the Pokemon breaks free. If targeting a trainer, use half their STR modifier as their power capability.


Trapper Features

Big Game Hunting +				Trapper Feature
     Prerequisites: Trapper, 20 DEX, Big Game Hunting
     At-Will
     Target: A Wild Pokemon
     Effect: Name the Target as your Quarry.  When calculating the Catch Rate of your Quarry, their level is considered to be reduced by X.  X is equal to your DEX modifier.  You may only have one Quarry at a time, and may only declare or change your Quarry at the start of a round.  This feature replaces Big Game Hunting.

Bring ‘em Down					Trapper Feature
     Prerequisites: Trapper, Lasso
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Target: A Lassoed Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your DEX modifier. On a roll of X or higher, the target Pokemon becomes Trapped for a number of rounds equal to half your DEX modifier.  X is equal to 10 plus the Pokemon’s Power Capability, or 10 plus half the Trainer’s Str modifier.

False Strike						Trapper Feature
     Prerequisites: Trapper
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Trigger: You deal damage to your Quarry.
     Effect: When you make attacks with an Arms Feature that would reduce a target to 0 HP or less, you may choose to have the target instead remain at 1 HP.

Ninety-Caliber Net				Trapper Feature
     Prerequisites: Collector, Weighted Net, Net Cannon (1,250)
     Static
     Effect: You obtain a Net Cannon which may be used to launch Weighted Nets, at a distance of 10 
meters. Additionally, you may use Curve Ball and Bean Ball with Nets launched from the Net Cannon as if they were pokeballs.

Pheromone Spray					Trapper Feature
     Prerequisites: Trapper
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Target: A Pokemon
     Effect: The target Pokemon becomes Infatuated with the nearest Pokemon of the opposite gender. 

Stun Trap						Trapper Feature
     Prerequisites: Trapper
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Place a marker on the field adjacent to you. If a pokemon or trainer crosses over that spot on the ground they trigger the Stun Trap. The pokemon or person who triggered the Trap is Paralyzed. 








Set for Capture					Trapper Feature
     Prerequisites: Trapper
     Daily
     Trigger: You succesfully use Bring Them Down on a Lassoed Pokemon.
     Effect: The target Pokemon’s catch rate is increased by 15 for the remainder of the time they are Trapped.

Sweet Trap						Trapper Feature
     Prerequisites: Trapper, a Pokemon with Sweet Scent or the Alluring Capability
     Daily
     Target: A Pokemon
     Effect: Use the Move Sweet Scent

Tranquilizer						Trapper Feature
     Prerequisite: Collector, Rifle (2,000)
     At-Will
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the move Yawn on a single target within 30 meters. Firing your Tranquilizer Rifle requires a Tranquilizer dose, which can be purchased at Pokemarts for 100. The Rifle holds only one shot at a time, and loading requires a Trainer Action. After successfully falling asleep due to the effects of 
Tranquilizer, the target becomes immune to Tranquilizer for 6 hours.

Yank!							Trapper Feature
     Prerequisites: Trapper, Lasso
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Trigger: A Lassoed Pokemon attempts to use a Move.
     Effect: Roll 1d20. On a result of 1-10, the Pokemon takes damage equal to its STAB value, ignoring stats, and may not use any moves this turn. On a result of 11-20, the Pokemon acts normally.

Coordinator


	Class Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	13 CHA, 13 CON
	
	Bonuses: +1 CHA +1 CON
	Penalties: -2 DEX

Base Features


Natural Grace			Coordinator Feature
     Static
     Effect: Your Pokemon Learn +20% the amount of experience they would gain normally from 
contests. If you win a Contest, you gain an additional +15% the amount of prize money you 
normally would. 
 
Style and Poise			Coordinator Feature
     Static
     Effect: Your Pokemon may have a total number of combined Contest Stats equal to 24. 
Furthermore, they may gain the effects of any number of Poffins until they reach this maximum. If a Pokemon is traded away to a non-Coordinator, and the Pokemon has more then 20 points of 
Contest Stats, they do not lose those stats, but their new trainers may not have access to more than 20 Contest Points per Contest.

	Mechanic: Some Coordinator Features have multiple uses, one for Contests and one for non-Contests. They maintain the same prerequisites and frequencies but activate differently based on when they are activated; whether or not it is used during a Contest. Some of these non-Contest Effects allow the Coordinator to perform Pokemon Moves, while others allow their Pokemon to 
perform them even if they do not know them.

Coordinator Features

Catch Up!				Coordinator Feature
     Prerequisites: Coordinator
     At-Will
     Contest Effect: Replace a keyword on a Contest Move performed by your Pokemon with Catching Up. You may use Catch Up only once per contest.
     Battle Effect: Use the move Helping Hand. 
 
Crowd’s Cheers			Coordinator Feature
     Prerequisites: Coordinator, 16 CHA
     Daily
     Contest Effect: Replace a Contest Keyword on a Contest Move performed by your Pokemon with Crowd Pleaser for one round of the Contest. You may use Crowd’s Cheers only once per contest.
     Battle Effect: Use the move Encore. 

Electrifying Performance	Coordinator Feature
     Prerequisites: Coordinator, 5 Ribbons
     Weekly - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per Week.
     Target: One of your Pokemon.
     Contest Effect: Add the Contest Keyword Incredible to a Contest Move performed by the Pokemon this Round.
     Battle Effect: The target immediately uses the Move Lock-On as a Free Action. During the target’s turn it may not use any of the following Moves: Moves Sheer Cold, Guillotine, Horn Drill or Fissure. You may still roll to determine additional effects or Critical Hit. This must be declared before the Accuracy Check is made. 
 
Judge Blinders			Coordinator Feature
     Prerequisites: Coordinator, 3 Ribbons
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon.
     Contest Effect: Replace a Contest Keyword on a Contest Move performed by your Pokemon with 
Special Attention. You may use Judge Blinders only once per contest.
     Battle Effect: The target immediately uses the Move Follow Me as its Move Action, it may still shift during its turn during this round of combat. 
 
Lead Act					Coordinator Feature
     Prerequisites: Coordinator, 16 CON
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon.
     Contest Effect: Replace a Contest Keyword on a Contest Move performed by your Pokemon with Quick Set. You may use Lead Act only once per contest.
     Battle Effect: Use the move After You. 
 









Patience					Coordinator Feature
     Prerequisites: Coordinator, 16 CON
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon.
     Contest Effect: Replace a Contest Keyword on a Contest Move performed by your Pokemon with Slow Set. You may use Patience only once per contest.
     Battle Effect: Use the move Quash. 
 
Perfect Performance		Coordinator Feature
     Prerequisites: Coordinator, 15 CON
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon who just received First or Second place in a contest.
     Effect: The target gains +30% experience from the Contest if they came in Second place.  They gain +80% experience instead if they came in First place.  

Voltage Freeze			Coordinator Feature
     Prerequisites: Coordinator, 15 CON, 2 Ribbons
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon.
     Contest Effect: Replace a Contest Keyword on a Contest Move performed by your Pokemon with 
either Excitement or Hold That Thought this round. You may use Voltage Freeze only once per contest.
     Battle Effect: Your Pokemon gains the keyword “Reliable” on the next Battle Frequency Move it 
performs during this encounter. 
 
Voltage Freeze+			Coordinator Feature
     Prerequisites: Coordinator, Voltage Freeze, 20 CON
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon.
     Contest Effect: Replace a Contest Keyword on a Contest Move performed by your Pokemon with 
either Excitement, Hold That Thought, or both. You may use Voltage Freeze+ only once per contest.
     Battle Effect: Your Pokemon gains the keyword “Reliable” on the next Battle or Center Frequency moves it performs. This feature replaces Voltage Freeze+ 
 
You Call That Impressive?	Coordinator Feature
     Prerequisites: Coordinator, 17 CHA
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your pokemon.
     Contest Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. On a result of 13 or higher, add the Contest Keyword Seen Nothing Yet to your pokemon’s Contest Move for this round.
     Battle Effect: The target gains one of these effect based on which Move it will be using during this round of combat: If the Move has the keyword Blast or Burst, increase the size of the Blast/Burst by 2. If the Move does not have either of those keywords and is Ranged, increase its range by 4. If the Move is Melee, increase the target’s Speed Capabilities by 4. 


Beauty Modeler


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Coordinator, 
	3 Beauty Contest Ribbons

	Bonus: +1 CON


Base Features


Beautiful Advantage		Beauty Modeler Features
     Static
     Effect: X is your CON modifier. Add X to your Pokemon’s appearance appeal in the first round of a Beauty Contest. Your Pokemon are Beautiful. All of your Pokemon with Loyalty 2 or higher may be targeted as if they have a Beauty Ribbon, but do not actually have one. Your Pokemon may have up to 20 points in their Beauty Contest Stat, and burn up to 5 points of its Beauty Stat on a single move. 
 
Beautiful Offense		Beauty Modeler Features
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon with a Beauty Contest Ribbon
Effect: Mark your Pokemon with Beauty Ribbons as “Superior.” When adding stats during level up for Superior Pokemon, while the Pokemon is still yours, you may add to the Pokemon’s Special 
Attack Stat and ignore Base Relation. 


Beauty Modeler Features

Beautiful Grace			Beauty Modeler Features
     Prerequisites: Beauty Modeler
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Beauty Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Serene Grace Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Serene Grace, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the 
Pokemon is recalled

Beautiful Pull			Beauty Modeler Features
     Prerequisites: Beauty Modeler
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Beauty Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Shadow Tag pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Shadow Tag, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled. 

Beautiful Shine			Beauty Modeler Features
     Prerequisites: Beauty Modeler
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Beauty Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Magic Guard pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Magic Guard, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the 
Pokemon is recalled

Beautiful Skin			Beauty Modeler Features
     Prerequisites: Beauty Modeler
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Beauty Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Marvel Scale Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Marvel Scale, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled

Beauty’s Allies			Beauty Modeler Features
     Prerequisites: Beauty Modeler, 1 Cute Ribbon or 1 Cool Ribbon
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Beauty Ribbon.
     Contest Effect: When the target uses a Cute Move or a Cool Move in a Contest, you may choose to have the Move raise the Voltage.
     Battle Effect: Once per combat, if the target uses a Move that has a Beauty Contest Type, the Move needs -2 to hit. 











Beauty’s New Allies		Beauty Modeler Features
     Prerequisites: Beauty Modeler, 1 Smart Ribbon or 1 Tough Ribbon
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Beauty Ribbon.
     Effect: When the target uses a Smart Move or Tough Move in a Contest, you may choose to have the Move not lower the Voltage.  

Dangerous Allure			Beauty Modeler Features
     Prerequisites: Beauty Modeler, 18 CON
     Static
     Effect: Your Pokemon with at least one Beauty Ribbon have the Alluring capability. When you, your Pokemon, an ally or ally’s pokemon, target any wild Pokemon who has attacked one of your Pokemon affected by Dangerous Allure within the same round, or last round, of combat, the Accuracy Check is -2. 

Fabulous Max				Beauty Modeler Features
     Prerequisites: Beauty Modeler, 18 CON
     Daily - Every 10 levels, you may use this feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon with at least 15 in their Beauty Stat.
     Effect: When the target uses a Move that has a Beauty Contest Type, the move gains the keyword Burst with a size of 2 if Melee, or Blast with a size of 2 if ranged. If the move is already a Burst or Blast, increase the size of the Move’s Range by 2. This Feature may only be applied once per move. 

Mind Makeover			Beauty Modeler Features
     Prerequisites: Beauty Modeler, 16 CON
     Daily
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon .
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and your CON modifier. If your result is 16 or greater, you may change the target’s Nature to Bashful, Modest, Mild, Rash or Quiet. 
 
Ravishing Style			Beauty Modeler Features
     Prerequisites: Beauty Modeler, a Pokemon with a Beauty Stat of 15.
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon with at least 15 in their Beauty Stat.
     Contest Effect: When the target uses a Beauty Move, roll an additional 1d4 during the appeal.
     Battle Effect: When the target uses a Move that has a Beauty Contest Type, the Move raises the target’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage. 

Choreographer


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Coordinator, 16 CON

	Bonus: +1 CON

Base Features

Stage Notation			Choreographer Feature
     Static
     Effect:  Once per contest, when of your Pokemon performs a Song Move, roll +1d6 during that 
appeal. Once per contest, when of your Pokemon performs a Dance Move, roll +1d6 during that 
appeal.

Writing New Parts		Choreographer Feature
     Daily
     Target: A Move on a Pokemon’s Move List
     Effect: Writing New Parts makes the target Move a “Song Move,” or a “Dance Move,” but only for that Pokemon. Writing New Parts may not make more then five different Moves a Song Move or a Dance Move for a single Pokemon. You can make a new Move a Song Move or Dance Move, even if you already have five total Song Moves and Dance Moves made with Writing New Parts, as long as an older Move is no longer a Song Move/Dance Move. Moves can be Song and Dance Moves, but will count as two, when counting the total of five Song/Dance Moves. When counting the five Song and Dance Moves, ignore those considered Song/Dance Moves listed in the Choreographer Mechanics.

	Mechanic: 	The following Moves are naturally considered “Dance Moves”:
Acrobatics, Attract, Dragon Dance, Entrainment, Featherdance, Fiery Dance, Lunar Dance, Petal Dance, Rain Dance, Rapid Spin, Role Play, Swords Dance, Teeter Dance, Quiver Dance, Work Up
			Moves with the keyword “Sound” are nautrally considered “Song Moves.”

	NNatural Song Moves and Dance Moves do not count towards Writing New Parts’ “five.”


Choreographer Features

Acrobatic Steps			Choreographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Choreographer, 18 CON
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: For the remainder of the encounter, you have +3 Evasion. Acrobatic Steps may only be used once per encounter.

Benesh Script			Choreographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Choreographer
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon performing a Dance Move, with a Melee Range, 
	in battle and another Pokemon with a line of sight to your Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CON modifier. On a result of 16 or better, the Pokemon you target will perform the same Dance Move that your Pokemon used during their next action. It may choose new targets. If the other target is an owned Pokemon, or has an Intelligence 5 or higher it may ignore Benesh Script.
 
Dazzling The Stage		Choreographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Choreographer, Level 15
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon performing a Song Move or Dance Move in battle.
     Effect: Choose another Song Move or Dance Move without a Damage Dice Roll on the target’s Move List. Add its effects to the Song Move or Dance Move the Pokemon is using, then it is Exhausted. Any effects that set a target to a certain HP cannot be used with Dazzling The Stage and any effects that make Hazards or Walls cannot be used with Dazzling The Stage. A Move modified by Dazzling The Stage 
cannot be combined through the use of Tag Battler Features.
 
Demiflat Vibrato			Choreographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Choreographer
     Static
     Effect: When your Pokemon would have any of its Combat Stages lowered by a Move with a Damage Dice Roll used by a foe, the foe must have rolled at least a 19 during accuracy check for it to successfully lower your Pokemon’s Combat Stages. When your Pokemon use a Song Move, anything targeting them during the same round of combat must roll +1 to hit once per encounter.

Eskhol Stance			Choreographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Choreographer
     Static
     Effect: When your Pokemon use a Dance Move, they cannot be Pushed or Flinched during that round of Combat. When your Pokemon are Paralyzed, if they use a Dance Move you may treat its next Paralyze check as a 16 once per encounter.











Fortissimo Leap			Choreographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Choreographer, Level 15
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon performing a Song Move or Dance Move in battle.
     Effect: Your Pokemon uses the Song Move or Dance Move twice during their Move action, then is Exhausted for 2 rounds of Combat. The target cannot be returned to a Poke Ball for 2 rounds of Combat. If the Pokemon uses a Move with Exhaust, it is Exhausted for an additional 2 turns.
 
Mirror Staccato			Choreographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Choreographer
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon performing a Song Move, with at least one target, in battle.
     Effect: The Song Move forces any targets to use a Move with a Damage Dice Roll on the Pokemon 
using the Song Move during any target’s next turn. If your Pokemon is successfully hit during any target’s turn during the next round of combat, reduce the damage by your CON modifier. If any targets of the Song Move are owned Pokemon, or have an Intelligence 5 or higher it may ignore Mirror Staccato.

Rising Accompaniment		Choreographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Choreographer
     Daily
     Target: One of your Pokemon performing a Song Move, with no Damage Dice Roll, in battle.
     Effect: The Song Move may be used by any allied Pokemon as its Move action for the rest of the round of combat, if, on any allied Pokemon’s turn, they roll 8 or better on 1d20. Do not ignore Frequency for any allied Pokemon who may have used an EOT, Battle or Center Song Move during any previous round of combat. If an allied Pokemon fails the roll to use the Song Move, it may still make its normal Move action.
 
Teamwork Chorus			Choreographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Choreographer, 7 Choreographer Features
     Daily
     Effect: During the next round of combat, all allied Trainers and Pokemon within 10 meters of you either deal X more damage while using Moves or Features that have Damage Dice Rolls or take X less damage from Moves or Features that have Damage Dice Rolls. X is your CON modifier, but cannot 
exceed 5.

Wachman Flair			Choreographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Choreographer
     Static
     Effect: Once per Contest, when one of your Pokemon uses a Dance Move and if the Pokemon would get a STAB bonus using the Move during combat, you may raise any single judge’s voltage one level.

Cool Trainer


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Coordinator,
	3 Cool Contest Ribbons

	Bonus: +1 CHA


Base Features


Cool Advantage			Cool Trainer Feature
     Static
     Effect: X is your CHA modifier. Add X to your Pokemon’s appearance appeal in the first round of a Cool Contest. Your Pokemon are Cool. All of your Pokemon with Loyalty 2 or higher may be targeted as if they have a Cool Ribbon, but do not actually have one. Your Pokemon may have up to 20 points in their Cool Contest Stat, and burn up to 5 points of its Cool Stat on a single move. 
 
Cool Offense				Cool Trainer Feature
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon with a Cool Contest Ribbon
     Effect: Mark your Pokemon with Cool Ribbons as “Unleashed.” When adding stats during level up for Unleashed Pokemon, while the Pokemon is still yours, you may add to the Pokemon’s Attack Stat and ignore Base Relation. 


Cool Trainer Features

Cool Break				Cool Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Cool Trainer
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cool Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Mold Breaker Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Mold Breaker, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled. 

Cool Defiance			Cool Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Cool Trainer
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cool Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Defiant Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Defiant, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is 
recalled.

Cool Eye					Cool Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Cool Trainer
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cool Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Sniper pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Sniper, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled. 

Cool Stare				Cool Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Cool Trainer
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cool Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Intimidate Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Intimidate, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled. 

Cool’s Allies			Cool Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Cool Trainer, 1 Beauty Ribbon or 1 Tough Ribbon
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cool Ribbon.
     Contest Effect: When the target uses a Beauty Move or a Tough Move in a Contest, you may choose to have the Move raise the Voltage.
     Battle Effect: Once per combat, if the target uses a Move that has a Cool Contest Type, the Move needs -2 to hit. 
 
Cool’s New Allies		Cool Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Cool Trainer, 1 Smart Ribbon or 1 Cute Ribbon
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cool Ribbon.
     Effect: When the target uses a Smart Move or Cute Move in a Contest, you may choose to have the Move not lower the Voltage. 





Crazy Awesome			Cool Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Cool Trainer, a Pokemon with a Cool Stat of 15.
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon with at least 15 in their Cool Stat.
     Contest Effect: When the target uses a Cool Move, roll an additional 1d4 during the appeal.
     Battle Effect: When the target uses a Move that has a Cool Contest Type, the Move raises the target’s Attack 1 Combat Stage. 
 
Leaders Of The Pack		Cool Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Cool Trainer
     Static
     Effect: Your Pokemon with at least 2 Cool Ribbons and a Cool Stat of 15 or higher have the Capability Pack Mon. 

Raditude					Cool Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Cool Trainer, 16 CHA
     Daily
     Target: Your Pokemon or an ally’s pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and your CHA modifier. If your result is 16 or greater, you may change the target’s Nature to Desperate, Lonely, Adamant, Naughty or Brave. 

Rule of Cool				Cool Trainer Feature
     Prerequisites: Cool Trainer, 3 Cool Ribbons, 22 CHA
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon with at least 15 in their Cool Stat.
     Effect: When the target uses a Move with a Cool Contest Type, that move cannot be Intercepted or Interrupted. 

Cute Idol


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Coordinator,
	3 Cute Contest Ribbons

	Bonus: +1 CHA


Base Features


Cute Advantage			Cute Idol Feature
     Static
     Effect: X is your CHA modifier. Add X to your Pokemon’s appearance appeal in the first round of a Cute Contest. Your Pokemon are Cute. All of your Pokemon with Loyalty 2 or higher may be targeted as if they have a Cute Ribbon, but do not actually have one. Your Pokemon may have up to 20 points in their Cute Contest Stat, and burn up to 5 points of its Cute Stat on a single move. 
 
Cute Moves				Cute Idol Feature
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon with a Cute Contest Ribbon
     Effect: Mark your Pokemon with Cute Ribbons as “Speedy.” When adding stats during level up for Speedy Pokemon, while the Pokemon is still yours, you may add to the Pokemon’s Speed Stat and ignore Base Relation. 



Cute Idol Features

Cute Chance					Cute Idol Feature
     Prerequsites: Cute Idol
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cute Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Super Luck pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Super Luck, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled. 
 
Cute Charm					Cute Idol Feature
     Prerequisites: Cute Idol
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied pokemon with a Cute Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Cute Charm Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Cute Charm, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled. 

Cute Feet					Cute Idol Feature
     Prerequisites: Cute Idol
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cute Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Quick Feet Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Quick Feet, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled. 

Cute Find					Cute Idol Feature
     Prerequisites: Cute Idol
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cute Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Pick Up Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Pick Up, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled. 

Cute’s Allies				Cute Idol Feature
     Prerequisites: Cute Idol, 1 Beauty Ribbon or 1 Smart Ribbon
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cute Ribbon.
     Contest Effect: When the target uses a Beauty Move or a Smart Move in a Contest, you may choose to have the Move raise the Voltage.
     Battle Effect: Once per combat, if the target uses a Move that has a Cute Contest Type, the Move needs -2 to hit. 
 










Cute’s New Allies			Cute Idol Feature
     Prerequisites: Cute Idol, 1 Cool Ribbon or 1 Tough Ribbon
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Cute Ribbon.
     Effect: When the target uses a Cool Move or Tough Move in a Contest, you may choose to have the Move not lower the Voltage. 
 
Dainty						Cute Idol Feature
     Prerequisites: Cute Idol, a Pokemon with a Cute Stat of 15.
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon with at least 15 in their Cute Stat.
     Contest Effect: When the target uses a Cute Move, roll an additional 1d4 during the appeal.
     Battle Effect: When the target uses a Move that has a Cute Contest Type, the Move raises the target’s Speed 1 Combat Stage.

Diversion Tactics			Cute Idol Feature
     Prerequisites: Cute Idol
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon with a Cute Ribbon
     Effect: As long as your Pokemon has not yet performed a Move this round during combat, they 
immediately perform one of the following Moves: Captivate, Charm, Fake Tears or Tickle. 

Infantilization				Cute Idol Feature
     Prerequisites: Cute Idol, 16 CHA
     Daily
     Target: Your Pokemon or an ally’s Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and your CHA modifier. If your result is 16 or greater, you may change the target’s Nature to Serious, Timid, Hasty, Jolly or Naive. 
 
Too Cute to Hurt				Cute Idol Feature
     Prerequisites: Cute Idol, 3 Cute Ribbons
     Daily
     Trigger: Your Pokemon with at least two Cute Ribbons is targeted by an attack.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and your CHA modifier. If the result is 16 or greater, your Pokemon convinces the 
attacker to target a different Pokemon. The attacker keeps their accuracy roll, and must use the same move, but it can choose its new target. If there are no other available targets, the feature fails. 

Fashion Designer


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Coordinator,
	Fashion Case (1500)

	Bonus: +1 CHA

Base Features


Simple Accessory		Fashion Designer Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: Create an Accessory.  When worn, the accessory adds +1 Appeal during the Introduction Stage of a Contest. It costs 300 to use Simple Accessory.

Sparkles and Glitter	Fashion Designer Feature
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon entering a contest.
     Effect: Add +X to the Pokemon’s Appeal during the Introduction Stage, where X is the number of Fashion Designer accessories made by you being worn by the target.

	Mechanics:  Pokemon and Trainers alike can each equip and benefit from a maximum of 3 Accessories. Clothing Piece items count as Accessories, but may only be equipped and activated by Trainers. Conversely, Held-Items can only be equipped and activated by Pokemon, unless the 
Held-Item is also a Clothing Piece.


Fashion Designer Features

Ability Design		Fashion Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Fashion Designer, 18 CHA
     Daily
     Effect: Choose a Pokemon Ability known by a Pokemon you own. You create an Ability Design 
Held-Item that may be activated once per day. When activated, the holder gains the holder gains  the chosen ability for 5 rounds.  You may not copy Wonder Guard with Ability Design. It costs 3500 to use Ability Design.

Capability Design	Fashion Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Fashion Designer
     At-Will
     Effect: Choose a numbered Capability. You create a Capability Design Held-Item that, when activated, adds +2  to the chosen Capability for five minutes. If you chose the Intelligence or Power Capabilities, add only +1 for 5 minutes, and may not raise Intelligence or Power above 7.  A Pokemon may not 
benefit from multiple  bonuses to the same Capability from a Capability Design item. Once activated a third time, the Accessory breaks.  It costs 550 to use Capability Design.

Designed Stability	Fashion Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Fashion Designer, Designed Volatility
     At-Will
     Effect: Whenever you create an Accessory or Clothing item that has a limited number of uses, you may pay an additional 500 to instead create that accessory as a Stable Accessory. Stable Accessories and Clothing do not break, but may only be activated once per day.

Designed Volatility	Fashion Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Fashion Designer, 5 Fashion Designer features.
     At-Will
     Effect: Whenever you create a Fashion Designer item that has a limited number of uses, you may pay an additional 200 to instead create that accessory as a Volatile Accessory. Volatile Accessories do not break after a set number of uses; instead, each time they are activated, you must roll 1d20. If you roll less than 5, the accessory or clothing item loses all its abilities.

Item Stylist			Fashion Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Fashion Designer
     At-Will
     Target: An Item.
     Effect: The Targetted item adds +1 Appeal during the introduction stage of a Contest if equipped.  If the targetted item was not already an Accessory, it becomes an Accessory. You may not target the same item multiple times with Item Stylist.

Lucky Tailor			Fashion Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Fashion Designer, 18 CHA
     At-Will
     Effect: You create a Lucky Piece, which is a Clothing Piece. The Lucky Item may be used 1d20 and add the result to any roll made as a result of a trainer action taken by the wearer. Once  activated a third time, the Lucky Piece breaks.  A Trainer may benefit from a Lucky Piece only once each round. It costs 550 to use Lucky Tailor.




Move Accessory		Fashion Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Fashion Designer, 18 CHA
     Daily
     Effect: Choose a Pokemon Move known by a Pokemon you own. You create a Move Accessory that may be activated once per day to simulate the Chosen move while in a Contest.  Once activated a third time, the Move Accessory loses all its abilities.  It costs 400 to use Move Accessory.

Practical Tailor		Fashion Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Fashion Designer
     At-Will
     Effect:  Choose a Trainer Stat. You create a Stat Piece, which is a Clothing Piece.  When activated, it adds +1 to the chosen stat’s Modifier for five minutes. Once activated a third time, the Stat Piece loses all its abilities. A Trainer may not benefit from multiple pieces of Stat Tailor that add to the same Trainer Stat at the same time. It costs 550 to use Practical Tailor.

Style Accessory		Fashion Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Fashion Designer
     At-Will
     Effect: Choose a Contest Stat. You create a Type Accessory that, when worn, adds +1 to the appeal roll of any moves of the chosen Contest Type. A Pokemon or Trainer may not benefit from multiple Type 
Accessories that add to the same Contest Stat. It costs 500 to use Type Accessory.

Style Tailor			Fashion Designer Feature
     Prerequisites: Fashion Designer
     At-Will
     Effect: Choose a Contest Stat. You create a Type Piece, which is a Clothing Piece.  that adds +X to the chosen Contest Stat, where X is your base CHA modifier at the time you make the clothing. These Contest Stat points Points may be burned when using a move through a Feature or Accessory to add the to the Appeal score. A Trainer may not benefit from multiple pieces of Type Tailor that add to the same Contest Stat at the same time. It costs 800 to use Contest Tailor.

Smart Teacher


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Coordinator,
	3 Smart Contest Ribbons

	Bonus: +1 CHA


Base Features

Smart Advantage			Smart Teacher Feature
     Static
     Effect: X is your CHA modifier. Add X to your Pokemon’s appearance appeal in the first round of a Smart Contest. Your Pokemon are Smart. All of your Pokemon with Loyalty 2 or higher may be targeted as if they have a Smart Ribbon, but do not actually have one. Your Pokemon may have up to 20 points in their Smart Contest Stat, and burn up to 5 points of its Smart Stat on a single move.

Smart Defense			Smart Teacher Feature
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon with a Smart Contest Ribbon
     Effect: Mark your Pokemon with Smart Ribbons as “Aware.” When adding stats during level up for Aware Pokemon, while the Pokemon is still yours, you may add to the Pokemon’s Special 
Defense Stat and ignore Base Relation. 


Smart Teacher Features

Intelligent Design		Smart Teacher Feature
     Prerequisites: Smart Teacher, 16 CHA
     Daily
     Target: Your Pokemon or an ally’s Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and your CHA modifier. If your result is 16 or greater, you may change the target’s Nature to Calm, Gentle, Sassy, Sickly or Careful.

Linguistics Lesson		Smart Teacher Feature
     Prerequisites: Smart Teacher
     Monthly - Every 5 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per month.
     Target: Your Pokemon with high loyalty, Intelligence 6 and a Smart Ribbon
     Effect: The target can now speak human languages. Upon activation of Linguistics Lesson, the target will be able to have remedial conversations, but within one week should be able to hold discussion as complicated as your conversations. Linguistics Lesson may target the same Pokemon more then once, teaching a new human language each time.

Mental Potential			Smart Teacher Feature
     Prerequisites: Smart Teacher, a Pokemon with a Smart Stat of 15.
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon with at least 15 in their Smart Stat.
     Contest Effect: When the target uses a Smart Move, roll an additional 1d4 during the appeal.
     Battle Effect: When the target uses a Move that has a Smart Contest Type, the Move raises the target’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage.

Schooling				Smart Teacher Feature
     Prerequisites: Smart Teacher
     Weekly - Every 5 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per week.
     Target: Your Pokemon with a Smart Ribbon
     Effect: Raise the target’s Intelligence Capability 1 level permanently. Schooling may not be used on a Pokemon with a natural Intelligence Capability level of 6.

Smart Details			Smart Teacher Feature
     Prerequisites: Smart Teacher
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Smart Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Anticipation Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Anticipation, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled.













Smart Focus				Smart Teacher Feature
     Prerequisites: Smart Teacher
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Smart Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Download Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Download, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled.

Smart Planning			Smart Teacher Feature
     Prerequisites: Smart Teacher
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Smart Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Adaptability Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Adaptability, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled.

Smart Skin				Smart Teacher Feature
     Prerequisites: Smart Teacher
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Smart Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Filter Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Filter, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled.

Smart’s Allies			Smart Teacher Feature
     Prerequisites: Smart Teacher, 1 Cute Ribbon or 1 Tough Ribbon
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Smart Ribbon.
     Contest Effect: When the target uses a Cute Move or a Tough Move in a Contest, you may choose to have the Move raise the Voltage.
     Battle Effect: Once per combat, if the target uses a Move that has a Smart Contest Type, the Move needs -2 to hit.

Smart’s New Allies		Smart Teacher Feature
     Prerequisites: Smart Teacher, 1 Tough Ribbon or 1 Beauty Ribbon
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Smart Ribbon.
     Effect: When the target uses a Cool Move or Beauty Move in a Contest, you may choose to have the Move not lower the Voltage.

Tough Guy


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Coordinator,
	3 Tough Contest Ribbons

	Bonus: +1 CON


Base Features


Tough Advantage			Tough Guy Feature
     Static
     Effect: X is your CON modifier. Add X to your Pokemon’s appearance appeal in the first round of a Tough Contest. Your Pokemon are Tough. All of your Pokemon with Loyalty 2 or higher may be targeted as if they have a Tough Ribbon, but do not actually have one. Your Pokemon may have up to 20 points in their Tough Contest Stat, and burn up to 5 points of its Tough Stat on a single move.

Tough Defense			Tough Guy Feature
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon with a Tough Contest Ribbon
     Effect: Mark your Pokemon with Tough Ribbons as “Tank.” When adding stats during level up for Tank Pokemon, while the Pokemon is still yours, you may add to the Pokemon’s Defense Stat and ignore Base Relation.


Tough Guy Features

Burly Start				Tough Guy Feature
     Prerequisites: Tough Guy
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You send out a Pokemon with a Tough Stat of 10 or higher from a Poke Ball.
     Effect: The Pokemon gains Temporary HP equal to their Tough Stat.

Head Strong				Tough Guy Feature
     Prerequisites: Tough Guy, 16 CON
     Daily
     Target: Your Pokemon or an ally’s pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and your CON modifier. If your result is 16 or greater, you may change the target’s Nature to Stark, Bold, Impish, Lax or Relaxed. 

Immovable				Tough Guy Feature
     Prerequisites: Tough Guy, a Pokemon with a Tough Stat of 15.
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon with at least 15 in their Tough Stat.
     Contest Effect: When the target uses a Tough Move, roll an additional 1d4 during the appeal.
     Battle Effect: When the target uses a Move that has a Tough Contest Type, the Move raises the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage.

Muscle Up				Tough Guy Feature
     Prerequisites: Tough Guy
     Weekly - Every 15 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per week.
     Target: Your Pokemon with a Tough Contest Ribbon
     Effect: Raise the target’s Power Capability 1 level permanently. Muscle Up may not be used on a 
Pokemon with a natural Power Capability level of 7.

Tough Blood				Tough Guy Feature
     Prerequisites: Tough Guy
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Tough Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Big Pecks Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Big Pecks, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled.

Tough Hide				Tough Guy Feature
     Prerequisites: Tough Guy
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your pokemon or allied pokemon with a Tough Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Rough Skin Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Rough Skin, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled.








Tough Spirit				Tough Guy Feature
     Prerequisites: Tough Guy
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Tough Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Reckless Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Reckless, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled.

Tough Protectors			Tough Guy Feature
     Prerequisites: Tough Guy
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Tough Ribbon.
     Effect: The target gains the Battle Armor Pokemon ability, in addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has Battle Armor, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the 
Pokemon is recalled.

Tough’s Allies			Tough Guy Feature
     Prerequisites: Tough Guy, 1 Smart Ribbon or 1 Cool Ribbon
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Tough Ribbon.
     Contest Effect: When the target uses a Smart Move or a Cool Move in a Contest, you may choose to have the Move raise the Voltage.
     Battle Effect: Once per combat, if the target uses a Move that has a Tough Contest Type, the Move needs -2 to hit.

Tough’s New Allies		Tough Guy Feature
     Prerequisites: Tough Guy, 1 Cute Ribbon or 1 Beauty Ribbon
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon or allied Pokemon with a Tough Ribbon.
     Effect: When the target uses a Beauty Move or Cute Move in a Contest, you may choose to have the Move not lower the Voltage.

Martial Artist


	Class Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	13 STR, 13 DEX
	
	Bonuses: +1 STR +1 DEX
	Penalties: -2 INT


Base Features


Combat Focus			Martial Artist Feature
     Static
     Effect: Add your STR or DEX modifier to the damage you deal as a trainer.
 

Martial Endurance	Martial Artist Feature
     Static
     Effect: Add half your STR and DEX modifiers and multiply the total by 5 HP. Add this to your HP total.


Martial Artist Features

Brick Break				Martial Artist Feature		
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist, 3 Martial Artist Features
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Brick Break. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

Double Kick				Martial Artist Feature
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist, a Pokemon who knows Double Kick
     Daily – Every 4 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Double Kick. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

Façade					Martial Artist Feature
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Façade. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

Focus Punch				Martial Artist Feature
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist, Strength 18
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Focus Punch. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

Improved Combat Focus	Martial Artist Feature
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist, 18 STR, 18 DEX
     Static
     Effect: Add your STR and DEX modifier to the damage you deal as a Trainer. This Feature replaces Combat Focus.

Improved Martial Endurance	Martial Artist Feature
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist, 16 STR, 16 DEX
     Static
     Effect: Add your STR and DEX modifiers and multiply the total by 5 HP. Add this to your HP total. This Feature replaces Martial Endurance.

Jump Kick				Martial Artist Feature
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Jump Kick. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.










Karate Chop			Martial Artist Feature
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist
     At-Will
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Karate Chop. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

Mega Punch			Martial Artist Feature
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Mega Punch. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

Resilience			Martial Artist Feature
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist, DEX 18
     Daily - Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self
     Effect: Your are cured of any single status condition.

Tough Skin			Martial Artist Feature
     Prerequisites: Martial Artist, 13 STR
     Static
     Effect: When you take damage, from any source, reduce the damage by your STR modifier unless the damage source specifically says it cannot be reduced.


Athlete


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Martial Artist, 18 STR

	Bonus: +1 STR


Base Features

C’mon and Slam			Athlete Feature
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the move Slam. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat. If you hit, the next ally to target that enemy may ignore any Evasion and other effects that modify AC checks on the target.

Run, Baby, Run!			Athlete Feature
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: Add half of your STR modifier to your Overland, Surface, or Underwater capability until the end of your next turn. Run, Baby, Run! may be activated at the beginning of your turn, and only once per round.


Athlete Features

Comeback Kid					Athlete Feature
     Prerequisites: Athlete
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers
     Effect: Use the move Retaliate. Use your STR modifier as your ATK Stat.
 
Defensive Line				Athlete Feature
     Prerequisites: Athlete, 18 STR
     Daily - Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon is hit by an attack.
     Effect:  Once per round, if you have not already shifted, you may roll to intercept an attack for one of your pokemon. Roll 1d20. If your Strength stat is 20 or below, you must roll 11 or better on the check you may shift into the way of the attack. If your Strength stat exceeds 20, you need only roll 6 or better on the check. If your Strength stat exceeds 35, you do not need to make a check.

Dodge, Dip, Duck, Dive, and Dodge	Athlete Feature
     Prerequisites: Athlete, 22 STR
     Daily
     Effect: Use the move Detect.
 
Double Play					Athlete Feature
     Prerequisites: Athlete, a Pokemon with Power 5 or greater.
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: Your Pokemon hits with a Damage dealing Melee move.
     Effect: If your Pokemon hits a foe that you dealt damage to this turn, it deals an additional X damage and pushes the target X meters, where X is its Power Capability. If the target is pushed into Blocking 
Terrain, the target takes an additional 2d12 damage. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, both take 1d12 damage.
 
Gotta Go Fast				Athlete Feature
     Prerequisites: Athlete, 20 STR
     Daily - Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: Use the move Extremespeed. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.
 
In the Zone					Athlete Feature
     Prerequisites: Athlete, 16 STR
     Static
     Trigger: You activate Run, Baby, Run!
     Effect: You may use your Strength, instead of your Dexterity, to calculate your Initiative and Evasion until the end of your next turn.
 










Overtime						Athlete Feature
     Prerequisites: Athlete, 26 STR
     Daily
     Trigger:  You are lowered to 0 HP or less, but not greater then -100% HP.
     Effect: Before fainting, you may make one last shift, and perform a trainer action targeting an enemy.
 
Strength Training			Athlete Feature
     Prerequisite: Athlete, Work That Body
     At-Will
     Target: A pokemon with Power 5 or greater who is leveling up to a level evenly divisible by 5
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your STR modifier. If the total exceeds 15, the Pokemon learns Strength.
 
Welcome to the Jam			Athlete Feature
     Prerequisites: Athlete
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You use Slam.
     Effect: Slam’s AC becomes AC4. If you successfully hit a foe that dealt damage to another of your allies this round or last round, the next time an allied Trainer of Pokemon would damage that foe they deal an additional Xd6 damage, where X is half of your STR modifier.

Work that Body				Athlete Feature
     Prerequisites: Athlete
     Static
     Target: A pokemon who is leveling up to a level evenly divisible by 10
     Effect: Choose Power or a Movement Capability that the target has at 4 or higher. Permanently 
increase the chosen Capability by 1.  The Power Capability may not be raised to 7 or higher in this 
manner.

Aura User


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Martial Artist, 18 STR,
	A Pokemon with the 
	Aura Capability

	Bonus: +1 STR



Base Features


Aura Reading				Aura User Feature
     Static
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: You can read the Aura of your target. Everything has an Aura, but not many can access their Aura. Auras can be any color. The shade of the color varies from very tinted to very darkened. If the color of the Aura is tinted, the target has little negative intentions. If the color of the Aura is very blackened, the target has many malicious intentions. An Aura’s shade can be anywhere in between. You may also project your intent to Trainers or Pokemon. This does not allow you to read their minds.

Vacuum Wave				Aura User Feature
     Daily – Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Vacuum Wave. Use your STR modifier as your SP. ATK stat. 

Aura User Features

Aura Sphere				Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, seen the move Aura Sphere performed
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Aura Sphere. Use your STR modifier as your SP. ATK stat. 

Aura Thoughts			Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: You know the general course of actions the target intends to take such as, ‘Meet with associate’ ‘Fight our enemy’ ‘Destroy this location’ ‘Impress close friend’. These intentions can be misinterpreted by the Aura User, like reading the intention to harm someone, when it is simply a friendly competition. These intentions cannot be hidden by Voltorb Flip or the Mind Lock capability.

Dark Pulse				Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, has suffered a Dark Pulse attack
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Dark Pulse. Use your STR modifier as your SP. ATK stat. 

Drain Punch				Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, a Pokemon who knows Drain Punch
     Daily 
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Drain Punch. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat. 

Dragon Pulse				Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, has suffered a Dragon Pulse attack
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Dragon Pulse. Use your STR modifier as your SP. ATK stat. 

Fire Punch				Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, has suffered a Fire Punch attack
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Fire Punch. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat. 

Focus Blast				Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, Vacuum Wave, has suffered a Focus Blast attack
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Focus Blast. Use your STR modifier as your SP. ATK stat. 







Ice Punch				Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, has suffered a Ice Punch attack
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Ice Punch. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat. 

Light Screen				Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, a Pokemon who knows Light Screen 
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self
     Effect: Use the Move Light Screen.

Shadow Punch				Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, has suffered a Shadow Punch attack
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Shadow Punch. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat. 

Sword of Body and Soul	Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, 21 STR, 4 Aura User Features
     Static
     Effect: When you take Sword of Body and Soul, choose an elemental Type. You may have Arms attacks you make deal damage of that type.

Thunder Punch			Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, has suffered a Thunder Punch attack
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Thunder Punch. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat. 

Water Pulse				Aura User Feature
     Prerequisites: Aura User, has suffered an Water Pulse attack
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Water Pulse. Use your STR modifier as your SP. ATK stat.

Black Belt


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Martial Artist, 18 STR,
	Weapon of Choice (Unarmed)

	Bonus: +1 STR


Base Features


Close Combat				Black Belt Feature
     Daily 
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the attack Close Combat. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat. For the next five minutes, attacks you take from Pokemon treat their damage as if the user had one additional Combat Stage in Attack and Special Attack.

Sensei					Black Belt Feature
     Static
     Effect: Choose a specific Martial Art. You are a master of that form of Martial Arts and can before stunts related without making checks. You may take Sensei as another form of Martial Art again as a secondary feature. Your Unarmed attacks have an AC of 2, and you may deal either Fighting or 
Normal Type damage with your Unarmed Attacks.


Black Belt Features

Circle Throw				Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt, Go Away!
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers
     Effect: Use the move Circle Throw. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

Double-Edge				Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt, 20 STR
     Daily - Every 10 Levels gained, you may use this move another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the move Double-Edge. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

Go Away!					Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt
     At-Will
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers
     Effect: Push the target a number of Meters equal to your STR modifier halved. If the target is pushed into Blocking Terrain, it takes 2d10 damage. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, both take 1d10.

High Jump Kick			Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt, Jump Kick
     Daily - Every 5 Levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move High Jump Kick. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

I Can Take It			Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt, Reckless
     Static
     Effect: When taking damage from a move that you have used, reduce the damage by your STR modifier plus your DEX modifier. This may not reduce damage that was taken in order to use a Feature.

Low Sweep				Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt, Rolling Kick
     Daily - Every 8 Levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self
     Effect: Use the move Low Sweep. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

Mach Punch				Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt, has suffered a Mach Punch attack
     Daily - Every 5 Levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the move Mach Punch. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.








Reckless					Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt, 22 STR
     Static
     Effect: When using a Pokemon move that can deal damage to the user, you may choose to be treated as if you have the Ability Reckless. Declare this Feature before rolling Accuracy Check if you intend to use it.

Rolling Kick				Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt
     Daily - Every 7 Levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the move Rolling Kick. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.

Strong Guy				Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt
     Static
     Effect: Whenever you make a Strength check, or make a roll that requires you to add your STR modifier to your roll for damage, add 5 to your roll.

Toughest Skin			Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt, Tough Skin
     Static
     Effect: When you take damage from any source other than recoil, reduce the damage by your STR modifier doubled unless the damage source specifically says it cannot be reduced. This Feature replaces Tough Skin.

Wide Guard				Black Belt Feature
     Prerequisites: Black Belt, Toughest Skin
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the move Wide Guard.

Dirty Fighter


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Martial Artist, 17 DEX

	Bonus: +1 DEX

Base Features

Battle Chatter			Dirty Fighter Feature
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Target: A Trainer or Pokemon
     Effect: Select and Use one of the following Moves: Taunt, Swagger, or Flatter.  Regardless of Move selected, this Feature does not work on the same target twice in an encounter.

Psyche!					Dirty Fighter Feature
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Sucker Punch. Use your DEX modifier as your ATK stat.  You may use this Feature as a Free Action when attacked by a Melee-ranged Move or action - if you do, you may not perform a Trainer Action during your next turn.


Dirty Fighter Features

Ball Buster				Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter, 20 DEX, 6 Dirty Fighter features
     Daily
     Target: A Trainer with Pokemon still within Poke Balls
     Effect: Make an Arms Feature attack of your choice.  If it hits, roll 1d20 and add your STR mod.  If the result is 16 or higher, one Poke Ball containing a Pokemon that the target possesses is selected at random.  That Poke Ball becomes damaged, and cannot be used to release the Pokemon inside for X hours where X is your level.  Poke Balls damaged in this way can be repaired instantly by a Capture Specialist or at a Pokemon Center, Poke Mart, Ranger Station or any general place of Law Enforcement.
	 
Barbed Wire				Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter
     Daily - Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Target: One of your weapons
     Effect: You may only use this feature when combat begins. Roll 1d20 and add your DEX mod. If the result is 12 or higher, for the rest of the encounter, attacks you make with the target weapon deal an extra 1d10 damage. This may only be activated once per encounter 
	
Below the Belt			Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter, 18 DEX
     Daily
     Target: A Trainer
     Effect: Use the Move Mega Kick.  During the Accuracy Check for Mega Kick, if you roll 14 or higher, the target is Paralyzed. Use your DEX modifier as your ATK stat.
	 
Concealed Weapon			Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter, Weapon of Choice in a small weapon.
     Static
     Effect: Others are not aware you possess your qualifying Weapon of Choice normally. When you first perform an Arms Feature attack using this Weapon of Choice in a combat, your attack has an accuracy check of 2 and ignores the target’s evasion, and doubles its Damage Dice Roll. This bonus does not take place on unarmed attacks. 
		 
Crocodile Tears			Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter
     At-Will
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer who dealt damage to you on their last turn.
     Effect: The next time you roll an Accuracy Check while targeting Crocodile Tears’ target, you need -5 on your Accuracy Check.  This effect overrides Think Fast! if both would affect the target.  This feature only works once on a target per Encounter.
	
Desperate Assault		Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter, 20 DEX, 5 Dirty Fighter features
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer
     Effect: If you have used four different Dirty Fighter Features during a single Encounter, you may use the Move Last Resort. Use your DEX modifier, multiplied by 3, as your ATK stat.



 
Face! 					Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter
     Daily- Every 4 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Headbutt. Use your DEX modifier as your ATK stat.
	 	
Look, A Three Headed Mankey	Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer
     Effect: Your target rolls 1d20 and adds either their INT modifier or their Intelligence Capability as applicable.  On a roll of 12 or less, they lose their Trainer Action, for Trainers, or Move, for Pokemon, this round.  This Feature does not work on the same target twice in an encounter.
	 
Riposte					Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter, 20 DEX, Weapon of Choice
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Trigger: You are attacked with a Melee Arms Feature other than Fists 
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your DEX modifier. If the result is 20 or higher, the target’s attack fails and their weapon is knocked 5m away. They must spend a trainer action to retrieve the weapon. A Trainer losing a Weapon as a result of Riposte may make a check to resist losing their Weapon on a 16 or better on 1d20 adding their STR modifier. This may only be used once per turn. 
	 
Tax						Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter
     Daily- Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer
     Effect: Use the Move Thief. Use your DEX modifier as your ATK stat. If you target a Trainer with Tax, and you hit with Thief, you may take anything from the Trainer that can be seen on their person.
	
Think Fast!				Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter, 18 DEX
     At-Will
     Trigger: You miss with an Arms Feature or Unarmed attack
     Effect: Your action on your next turn that targets the same target requires 3 less on Accuracy Check to succeed.
	
You’ll Pay For That!		Dirty Fighter Feature
     Prerequisites: Dirty Fighter, 20 DEX
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Payback. Use your DEX modifier, multiplied by 3, as your ATK stat.

Message Therapist


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Martial Artist, 16 DEX

	Bonus: +1 DEX


Base Features


Massage Therapy		Massage Therapist Feature
     At-Will
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Massage Therapy requires an uninterrupted 5 minutes to apply.  The target is temporarily at full happiness and appears more appealing. If they level up without a negative incident within an hour of Massage Therapy and have met all previous requirements for evolution, evolution is 
guaranteed.

Pressure Points		Massage Therapist Feature
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You hit with an Unarmed arms attack
     Effect: You flinch the target. If the target is successfully flinched, the target becomes immune to further uses of Pressure Points for the rest of the encounter.


Massage Therapist Features

Boost Therapy			Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist, Invigorating Massage
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You use Massage Therapy
     Effect: Choose a trainer stat. The target of Massage Therapy gains +2 to the chosen stat’s modifier for 12 hours. You may only apply Boost Therapy to trainers, and a trainer may only benefit from one 
instance of Boost Therapy at a time.

Hand Burst				Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Arm Thrust. Use your DEX modifier as your ATK stat. If the same target is hit 4 times in the same round by Arm Thrust, used with Hand Burst, the target is Paralyzed.

Healing Touch			Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist, 18 DEX
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: The target regains HP equal to 2d12+10 plus your DEX modifier.

Impose Limberness		Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist, Limber
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Any Paralyzed or Flinched Target.
     Effect: The target is cured of their Paralysis and Flinched status.

Invigorating Massage		Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You use Massage Therapy
     Effect: The target of Massage Therapy gains temporary HP equal to your DEX modifier. In addition, you may now target other Trainers with Massage Therapy.

Limber					Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist, 20 DEX
     Static
     Effect: You are immune to Paralysis.

Muscle Therapy			Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist, Invigorating Massage
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You use Massage Therapy
     Effect: The target of Massage Therapy gains the ability ‘Limber’ for the next encounter that day.







Nerve Strike			Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: Use an Unarmed Arms Attack. On hit, you paralyze the target.

Precisionist			Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist
     Static
     Effect: Whenever you make a Dexterity check, or make a roll that requires you to add your DEX modifier to your roll for damage, add 5 to your roll.

Relaxation Therapy	Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist, Invigorating Massage
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You use Massage Therapy
     Effect: The target of Massage Therapy gains the ability ‘Inner Focus’ for the next encounter that day.

Smelling Salts		Massage Therapist Feature
     Prerequisites: Massage Therapist, Hand Burst
     Daily – Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Smelling Salts. Use your DEX modifier as your Attack stat.

Ninja


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Martial Artist, 18 DEX

	Bonus: +1 DEX


Base Features


Alacrity						Ninja Feature
     Static
     Trigger: Acrobatic stunt.
     Effect: Add half of your DEX modifier to your Movement Speeds as a trainer. You may treat Rough Terrain as Normal Terrain. You may run on vertical surfaces for up to your DEX modifier in meters before jumping off. You may also move silently without making checks.

Poisonpowder					Ninja Feature
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the move Poison Powder. You may choose to use it as a Melee move without the Blast keyword.


Ninja Features

Aerial Assault				Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, 20 DEX
     Daily - Every 4 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Aerial Ace. Use your DEX modifier as your ATK stat.

Ally Switch					Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, 22 DEX
     Daily 
     Target: An Ally whom you have line of sight to.
     Effect: Use the Move Ally Switch. 

Antidotes Master				Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja
     At-Will
     Target: Any Poisoned target.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your DEX modifier. If the total is 13 or higher, the target is cured of their Poisoning. This effect succeeds automatically if you inflicted the poison.

Blur							Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, 19 DEX
     Daily
     Target: Self
     Effect: Attacks, Moves and Features targeting you that don’t require an Accuracy Check now require one, as though they had Accuracy Check of 2 + your DEX modifier until the end of the encounter.

Caltrops						Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, Throwing Weapons Proficiency
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Target: Any spot on the battlefield
     Effect: Use the Move Spikes or Poison Spikes.

Deadly Poisons				Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, 5 Ninja Features
     Daily - Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You Poison a target. 
     Effect: The target is Badly Poisoned instead.

Double Team					Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, Blur
     Daily 
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use the Move Double Team.








Poison Jab					Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, a Poison-type Pokemon
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Poison Jab. Use your DEX modifier as your ATK stat.

Sleep Powder					Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Sleep Powder as a melee attack. Sleep Powder does not have the Blast keyword while used this way.

Smoke Bomb					Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: Use the move Smokescreen, then immediately use the move Teleport. Your Accuracy is never modified by a Smokescreen.

Spike Drop					Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, Caltrops
     At-Will
     Trigger: You Shift.
     Effect: You may expend a use of the Feature Caltrops to place one square meter of Spikes or Toxic Spikes in the path you took during your Shift Action per square meter of movement. If you choose to place more than 10 Square Meters of Hazard in this way, subtract another use of the relevant Feature.

Vanish						Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, 22 DEX
     Static
     Effect: You may blend with your surrounding objects. You are invisible to others as long as you stay still, If you move, it takes 5 seconds to regain the camouflage with surroundings. In order to remain still you must make a stealth check every 6 seconds, or round during an encounter, to remain still. The check is 16 on 1d20 added to your DEX modifier.

Venoshock					Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, 22 DEX, Vile Coating
     Daily
     Effect: Use the Move Venoshock. Use your DEX modifier as your SP. ATK Stat.

Vile Coating					Ninja Feature
     Prerequisites: Ninja, a Poison-type Pokemon
     Static
     Effect: You are treated as if you have the ability Poison Touch.


Weapons Master


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Martial Artist, 19 STR,
	Weapon of Choice

	Bonus: +1 STR


Base Features


Master’s Expertise		Weapons Master Feature
     Static
     Effect: The base Accuracy Check for any Weapon of Choice is AC2. This does not apply to 
Weapon of Choice (Unarmed).

Power Attack				Weapons Master Feature
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You hit with an Arms Attack.
     Effect: Raise the Damage Base of your Arms Attack with your Weapon of Choice by +2.

	Mechanic: Weapon Masters have two basic triggers for the majority of their features; a roll of 16-20 or declaring an arms attack with a weapon (not an unarmed attack). You may only apply one feature per trigger. Note that Power Attack triggers upon a succesful hit, and thus does not conflict with either of these triggers.


Weapons Master Features

Barrage					Weapons Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Weapons Master, 22 STR, 5 Weapons Master Features
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You declare an Arms Attack with a weapon.
     Effect: You must be wielding a ranged weapon to use this Feature. Your next arms attack gains the Blast keyword. The blast radius in meters is equal to half of your Strength modifier.

Kiai Focus				Weapons Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Weapons Master
     At-Will
     Effect: Use the Move Focus Energy.

Master’s Aegis			Weapons Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Weapons Master
     Static
     Effect: While holding a weapon you gain 5 damage reduction.

Passing Blade			Weapons Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Weapons Master
     Daily - Every 10 levels, you may perform this Feature another time per day
     Trigger: You declare an Arms attack with a weapon.
     Effect: When using a melee weapon, you grant your attack the Pass keyword. If you are wielding a Ranged weapon, the attack is instead a column 1 meter wide, and 15 meters long.

Piercing Shot			Weapons Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Weapons Master, 21 STR
     Daily - Every 10 levels, you may perform this Feature another time per day. 
     Trigger: You roll 16-20 with an Arms Feature with a weapon
     Effect: Reduce the arm attack’s target’s defense and special defense combat stages by 1, or lowers their damage reduction by 5 until the end of the encounter.

Quake Hammer				Weapons Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Weapons Master, 24 STR, 5 Weapons Master Features
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: You must be wielding a melee weapon to use this Feature. Use the Move Earthquake, centered around yourself, dealing damage of the same type as your weapon. This attack may not hit flying types or pokemon with Levitate, even if its element is not Ground. Use your STR modifier as your ATK stat.













Sword of Sun and Moon	Weapons Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Weapons Master, 21 STR, 7 Weapons Master Features
     Daily - Every 25 levels, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You declare an Arms attack with a Weapon.
     Effect: Your next Arms Attack cannot miss, and deals Special damage rather than Physical damage.

Razor Gash				Weapons Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Weapons Master, 20 STR
     Daily - Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You roll 16-20 with an Arms Feature with a Weapon.
     Effect: You score a critical hit.

Reaper’s Maneuver		Weapons Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Weapons Master, 21 STR
     Daily - Every 15 levels, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You roll 16-20 with an Arms Feature with a Weapon.
     Effect: The target is Confused.

Weapons Dance			Weapons Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Weapons Master, 26 STR, 5 Weapon Master Features.
     Static
     Target: Self
     Effect: Whenever you roll 16-20 on Arms Attack with your Weapon of Choice, you get a temporary +1 bonus to your STR modifier, up to a maximum bonus of +6. The Bonuses dissapear at the end of the 
encounter.

Mystic


	Class Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	13 STR, 13 WIS
	
	Bonuses: +1 STR +1 WIS
	Penalties: -2 CHA

Base Features

Channel						Mystic Feature
     At-Will - Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Make a Link Check, then subtract your Wisdom or Strength Stat from your roll. If it is 
successful, the Pokemon is being Channeled. The Pokemon is considered Helpful. Until this ally is 
attacked or severely distracted, it will listen to the Mystic’s suggestions and follow the Mystic until they are leaving the Pokemon’s home. You have knowledge of its Pokemon’s Move List, Abilities and 
Capabilities. You have knowledge of what happened in the Pokemon’s past hour. You and the 
Channeled Pokemon can communicate telepathically. Any attempt at attacking or capturing the 
Channeled Pokemon results in the Pokemon fleeing without fail. The Channeled Pokemon will not attack on your command. However, if the Channeled Pokemon is yours, treat it as usual, except it is being “Channeled”. You may only have one Pokemon Channeled at a time. If a Pokemon is more than X meters from you, it is no longer Channeled.  X is twice the sum of your STR modifier plus your WIS modifier.

Borrow						Mystic Feature			
     Daily
     Trigger: A Pokemon you are Channeling.
     Effect: Choose a Move on the Channeled Pokemon’s Move List. You may perform this Move, once, as a Trainer Action during the next 24 hours.  Use your STR modifier for your Attack stat and your WIS modifier for your Special Attack stat.

	Mechanic: Link Checks are made as if they are Capture Rolls. If your roll is less than the 
Pokemon’s Capture rate, you have successfully Channeled the Pokemon.


Mystic Features

Ancient Pulse				Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic, 17 WIS
     Static
     Target: Non-electronic, inorganic Items.
     Effect: You can identify the abilities of any non-electronic, inorganic Items and know how to activate their abilities and use them.

Channel Friend				Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic, 16 STR or 16 WIS
     Static
     Effect: Whenever you target a loyal Pokemon you own with Channel, treat your Possession Check as if you rolled 0.

Channel Friend +				Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic, Channel Friend, 20 STR or 20 WIS
     Static
     Effect: Whenever you target a loyal Pokemon you own with Channel, treat your Possession Check as if you rolled 0 and do not lose any HP in order to use Channel. Whenever you target a loyal Pokemon an ally owns with Channel and their permission, treat your Possession Check as if you rolled 0. You may also channel up to two Pokemon at a time. This Feature replaces Channel Friend.  

Channel Mind					Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic
     Static
     Effect: All Channeled Pokemon are treated as if their Intelligence Capability is as high as the highest Intelligence Capability among all Channeled Pokemon, or equal to your WIS Modifier -1. A Pokemon’s Intelligence Capability cannot be higher than 7. A Pokemon’s Intelligence can only be raised up to 6 as a result of your WIS modifier.

Experience Shared			Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic, 16 WIS
     Static
     Effect: You may see through the eyes of any Channeled Pokemon. You may hear anything a 
Channeled Pokemon can hear. If you are Channeling more than one Pokemon, you may only change between which Pokemon you are sharing senses with once per round of combat.

Mystic Veil					Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic, 18 WIS
     Static
     Effect: Add your WIS modifier added to your STR modifier multiplied by 3 to your total HP. This only applies to your human body. 










Perfect Vessel				Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic, Level 10
     Static
     Effect: You may Channel up to three Pokemon at the same time. If you have Channel Friend +, instead you may Channel up to five Pokemon at the same time.

Prophet						Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic, 16 WIS
     Static
     Effect: You know lore relating to any local Legendary Pokemon.

Sponge						Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic, Borrowed a move from an owned, 
	loyal Pokemon who has been raised at least 20 levels
     Static
     Effect: You may Borrow up to 3 Moves at a time when using Borrow or Possession Borrow. This does not allow you to use Borrow or Possession Borrow multiple times a day - instead you may choose to 
Borrow multiple moves at once from the same Pokemon during your Daily use of either Feature. The 
total number of Moves Borrowed a day may not exceed 3. You may not Borrow multiple copies of the same Move in one day.

Tree Hugger					Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic
     Static
     Effect: You can speak to plants that are at least 20 years old, and with a limited response they can inform you of anything that may have touched them in the past 24 hours, any Berries that may grow on them, or any Pokemon who live nearby and commonly visit.

Voodoo Shuffle				Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic, Perfect Vessel
     Static
     Effect: You may make two Channel attempts as one Trainer Action.

Zoopathy						Mystic Feature
     Prerequisites: Mystic, Channel Friend
     At-Will - Drains 5 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Adjacent Pokemon.
     Effect: You can talk to the Pokemon in its language for 4 hours.

Body Snatcher


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Mystic, Mystic Veil

	Bonus: +1 WIS


Base Features


Imposter				Body Snatcher Feature
     At-Will - Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: A Trainer.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If your roll exceeds the target’s Wisdom or 
Constitution score, whichever is lowest, you successfully Imitate the target. While Imitating a 
target, your physical body changes to look exactly like the target. Your voice, fingerprints, height, and weight all match the target’s exactly. You have a natural insight as to their general demeanor, ways of talking, ect. and can match them near perfectly. Your aura, however, remains as your own.  For the next 24 hours, or until you sleep or become unconscious, you have access to that Imitation. You may freely switch between your own form and the form of any imitation to which you have access as a trainer action. For every time you use this feature per day past the first use on any day, lower your Max HP by 10 as long as you maintain access to that Imitation.  You may, during your turn, give up access to any Imitation as a free action.

Talent Theft			Body Snatcher Feature
     Daily
     Trigger: You Imitate a trainer.
     Effect: Choose a Feature on the Trainer’s Feature List. This is considered a Borrowed Feature. For the next 24 hours, as long as you maintain access to their Imitation and are physically in their form, you may perform this feature at its normal frequency, or gain its benefits if it is a static feature. You may only Borrow a single feature from any one single source at a time. You may not use Talent Theft to borrow a One-Time-Use feature.



Body Snatcher Features

A Little Like You		Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You Imitate a Trainer.
     Effect: When you Imitate a Trainer, you may use A Little Like You. Choose a Trainer Stat. If the 
person you are Imitating has a higher Modifier than you in that Stat, your Stat Modifier of the Stat you chose is equal to the Possessed person’s Stat Modifier - 1 as long as you maintain access to their 
Imitation. This does not change the value of your Stats, only Stat Modifier.

Generic Form				Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher, 24 Wis
     At-Will
     Effect: You are able to change the appearance your entire body at a whim. You change to the gender, hair-color, height, weight, build, and skin tone of your choice. However, you are unable to significantly specify body features and facial structure, with the end result always looking somewhat generic. You are not able to transform to look like anyone in particular, and any attempts to do so will usually be 
recognizably and unusually off.

I Like Your Bod			Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher, Just a Little Longer
     At-Will
     Target: A Trainer whose Imitation you have had access to for at least 72 hours
     Effect: You create a Body Link link with that trainer. You may give up a Body Link during your turn as a free action. As long as you have acces to a Body Link, you may attempt to Imitate that target, 
regardless of distance or line of sight. You may only have one Body Link at a time, plus one more for every 25 trainer levels gained. 

It’s Still Mine			Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher
     At-Will
     Effect: Choose a feature you are currently Borrowing. For the next 10 minutes, no one may use that Feature if they are within 10m of you, except yourself. At the end of this time, you stop Borrowing the feature and lose further access to it.

Just a Little Longer		Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher, 3 Body Snatcher Features
     Static
     Effect: You no longer lose access to an Imitation due to sleep or unconsciousness. You still lose access to an Imitation after 24 hours are up, unless you lower your Max HP by 10 for as long as you choose to maintain access. If you do, you maintain access to that Imitation for another 24 hours. Maintaining 
access to an Imitation does not count as performing an Imitation, meaning you may not perform 
features that trigger upon Imitating a target.








Morphic Control			Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher
     Static
     Effect: When you use Impostor to Imitate a target, you may retain your curent form if you wish to, instead of taking the target’s form. The Imitation is in all other ways normal, and you still gain access to the Imitation for later use.  

Perfect Impostor			Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher, 3 Body Snatcher Features
     Static
     Effect: When you Imitate a target, you are able to successfully visually replicate gear and clothing. These are not illusions; these are actual physical replicas However, these replicas do not have any special features that the actual gear or clothing may have, and all useable items do not actually work. For 
example, you may replicate a potion around their belt, but the potion would have no effect if used.  When imitating a target, you are able to successfully mask your aura to appear to be the same as your target’s.

Resonance				Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher, 24 WIS
     Static
     Effect: Whenever you target an Allied Trainer with Impostor,  you automatically pass your check, and you do not lose any HP in order ot use Impostor. Additionally, you may access up to three imitations per day before you must lower your maximum HP.

Talent Mixer				Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher, 5 Body Snatcher Features
     Static
     Effect: When in your own form or any Imitated form, you may use and apply any Borrowed Features to which you currently have access.

Talent Sponge			Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher, Talent Theft, used 3 Features that were not your own 
     Static
     Effect: You may use Talent Theft up to three times per day. You may still only Borrow a single feature from any one single source at a time. 

Voice Snatcher			Body Snatcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Body Snatcher
     At-Will - Drains 10 of user’s HP per use. 
     Trigger: You Imitate a trainer.
     Effect: You make a vocal imprint of  the target’s voice. Once you have this imprint,  at anytime while you are in your own form or the form of any Imitation, you may use the person’s voice. You may collect as many voices as you’d like with Voice Snatcher.

Buffet


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Mystic, 17 WIS, 
	Borrowed 3 Moves that
	raised Combat Stages

	Bonus: +1 WIS


Base Features

Acupressure				Buffet Feature
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use Acupressure.

Empower					Buffet Feature
     At-Will
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Lower all of your Combat Stages to zero. For each Combat Stage you lowered, raise the target’s corresponding Combat Stage by one.

	Mechanic: Buffets can raise Combat Stages, even though Trainers do not have Combat Stages.

Buffet Features

Agility						Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, Borrowed Agility or Rock Polish
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use Agility.

Amnesia						Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, Borrowed Amnesia
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use Amnesia. 

Berry Booster				Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, 16 WIS
     At-Will - Drains 5 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Berry.
     Effect: The targeted Berry gains the ability of a Liechi Berry, Ganlon Berry, Petaya Berry, Apicot Berry, or Salac Berry and loses all other abilities. The flavor and appearance of the Berry do not change, but the Berry counts as a Liechi Berry, Ganlon Berry, Petaya Berry, Apicot Berry, or Salac Berry for the purposes of Berry Eater.

Berry Eater					Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, 16 WIS
     Static
     Effect: If you eat a Liechi Berry, Ganlon Berry, Petaya Berry, Apicot Berry, or Salac Berry you are raised 2 Combat Stages instead of 1 when the Berry’s effect is activated.

Buffering					Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, 5 Buffet Features
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: You may use two different, other Buffet Features that raise Combat Stages. This does not count toward the uses of those Buffet Features per day. 

Bulk Up						Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, Borrowed two Moves that raise Attack or Defense Combat Stages
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use Bulk Up. 

Calm Mind					Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, Borrowed two Moves that raise S.Atk or S.Def Combat Stages
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use Calm Mind.






Cosmic Power					Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, Borrowed two Moves that raise Defense or S.Def Combat Stages
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use Cosmic Power. 

Iron Defense					Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, Borrowed Iron Defense or Acid Armor or Barrier
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use Iron Defense. 

Nasty Plot					Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, Borrowed Nasty Plot or Tail Glow
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use Nasty Plot. 

Swords Dance					Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, Borrowed Swords Dance
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use Swords Dance. 

Supreme Presence				Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, 8 Buffet Features
     Static
     Effect: Whenever you use your Buffet features or Empower to raise ally Pokemon’s stats by a total of 6 combat stages, all Channeled Pokemon raise a Combat Stage of your choice by 1. Supreme Presence’s Combat Stage boost does not count for the purposes of triggering Supreme Presence.

Supreme Intimidation			Buffet Feature
     Prerequisites: Buffet, 8 Buffet Features
     Static
     Effect: Whenever you have a total of 10 Combat Stages raised, or more, all foes within 10m of you are treated as if a Combat Stage of your choice is lowered 1. 


Godspeaker


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Mystic, Has Channeled or
	Possessed a Legendary Pokemon

	Bonus: +1 STR


Base Features


Legendary Cry			Godspeaker Feature
     Daily - Drains 100 HP of each previously Channeled Legendary Pokemon per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Hyper Voice. For every 100 HP drained in order to use Hyper Voice, roll an additional 2d10 for damage while using Hyper Voice. Use your STR modifier multiplied by 5 as your SP. ATK stat. You may not use Legendary Cry for 2 days after using Legendary Cry.

Spotcheck				Godspeaker Feature
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: For five minutes, you can see from the point of view of any of the Legendary Pokemon you have ever possessed. You also know how far each of those Legendaries are from you and which 
direction they are from wherever you are.

	Mechanic: Godspeakers must borrow the power of Legendary Pokemon.  If they are in good standing with a Legendary, they may request to the Pokemon to make use of their power - the 
likelihood of the request being granted is up to the GM but should be tied to the Legendary’s 
current status and the frequency of requests.  If the request is not granted, the feature either fails, or the Godspeaker can force it to work.  If that is done, the relationship with the Legendary is 
permanently damaged and may make the Legendary refuse further requests.  If this is done too much, the Legendary will begin actively hunting the Godspeaker.



Godspeaker Features

Cold Snap				Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, Borrowed Ice Beam, Blizzard or Sheer Cold
     Daily - Drains 100 HP of each previously Channeled Legendary Pokemon per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Sheer Cold. For every 200 HP drained in order to use Sheer Cold, subtract 1 from Sheer Cold’s Accuracy Check. You may not use Cold Snap for 5 days after using Cold Snap. After using Cold Snap, you may not use Features, Issue Commands or Shift for 1 minute, or 6 rounds.

Flare					Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, Borrowed Overheat, Eruption or Fire Blast
     Daily - Drains 25 HP of each previously Channeled Legendary Pokemon per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Overheat. Use your STR modifier multiplied by 5 as your SP. ATK stat. You may not use Flare for 2 days after using Flare. 

God Shield				Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, took 1000 HP from Legendary Pokemon by using Features
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Protect.

Kneel					Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, took 5000 HP from Legendary Pokemon by using Features
     Daily 
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Mean Look. The target may also not Shift for 5 Rounds. The target also may not damage you for 5 Rounds. If the target attacks you or does something that would damage you, you take no damage.

Life Beam				Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, Borrowed Hyper Beam
     Daily - Drains 100 HP of each previously Channeled Legendary Pokemon per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Hyper Beam. For every 100 HP drained in order to use Hyper Beam, roll an 
additional 2d12 for damage while using Hyper Beam. Use your STR modifier multiplied by 5 as your SP. ATK stat. You may not use Life Beam for 4 days after using Life Beam. After using Life Beam, you may not use Features, Issue Commands or Shift for 1 minute, or 6 rounds.

Outburst					Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, Borrowed Outrage, Thrash or Dragon Rush
     Daily - Drains 25 HP of each previously Channeled Legendary Pokemon per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Outrage. Use your STR modifier multiplied by 5 as your ATK stat. When you use Outrage with Outburst, do not keep using Outrage on subsequent turns and you do not become 
confused.  You may not use Outburst for 3 days after using Outburst. 





Parasitic Embrace			Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, Borrowed Giga Drain, Mega Drain or Absorb
     Daily - Drains 25 HP of each previously Channeled Legendary Pokemon per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Giga Drain. Use your STR modifier multiplied by 5 as your SP. ATK stat. The HP drained from Legendary Pokemon when this Feature is used counts towards the HP you regain as a result of Giga Drain’s Effect. You may not use Parasitic Embrace for 2 days after using Parasitic Embrace.

Power Mimicry				Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, took 300 HP from Legendary Pokemon by using Features
     Daily 
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Mirror Move. Use your STR modifier multiplied by 5 as your SP. ATK  or ATK stat, depending on whatever Stat the Move uses.

Praise Me					Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, took 2000 HP from Legendary Pokemon by using Features
     Static
     Target: Allied Pokemon.
     Effect: Channeled Pokemon have and may use the Move Helping Hand to target you. Each Pokemon who uses Helping Hand in this way may not benefit from Praise Me for 24 hours. 

Tremor						Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, Borrowed Earthquake, Magnitude or Rock Slide
     Daily - Drains 25 HP of each previously Channeled Legendary Pokemon per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Earthquake. Use your STR modifier multiplied by 5 as your ATK stat. Instead of Earthquake having the keyword Burst, it instead has the keyword Blast when used with Tremor. You may not use Tremor for 3 days after using Tremor. 

Thunder Call					Godspeaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Godspeaker, Borrowed Zap Cannon, Thunder or Thunderbolt
     Daily - Drains 25 HP of each previously Channeled Legendary Pokemon per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Use the Move Zap Cannon. For every 25 HP drained in order to use Zap Cannon, subtract 1 from Zap Cannon’s Accuracy Check. Use your STR modifier multiplied by 5 as your SP. ATK stat. You may not use Thunder Call for 3 days after using Thunder Call. 

Guardian


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Mystic, Borrowed and used the 
	Moves Light Screen and Reflect

	Bonus: +1 WIS


Base Features


Light Screen				Guardian Feature
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use the Move Light Screen. When you do, you can make the Light Screen blocking terrain.

Reflect					Guardian Feature
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use the Move Reflect. When you do, you can make the Reflect blocking terrain.


Guardian Features

Distraction! Distraction!	Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian
     At-Will
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: If the target uses a Move or Feature that has a Damage Dice Roll on their next turn, they must target you. This may only be used once per turn.

Enough!						Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian, borrowed Counter or a high Loyalty Pokemon 
	who knows Counter
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use the Move Counter.

For The Team					Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: You may Shift twice as an Interrupt, and Shift between an attacking foe and an allied Trainer or allied Pokemon in order to become the target of a successful Move. You take any damage and effects of the attack as if you were the original target. If you have already Shifted during this round of combat, before using For The Team, you may not Shift during the next round of combat.

Guardian’s Blessing			Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian, Light Screen, Reflect, Safeguard
     Static
     Target: Self, Trainers, or Pokemon.
     Effect: You may use the Guardian Features Light Screen, Reflect or Safeguard as a Coat that affects only the target, instead of a wall, and lasts until the end of the encounter or the target is recalled.

Not So Fast!					Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian, Safeguard
     Static
     Effect: You may use the Guardian Feature Light Screen, Reflect, Safeguard, or 
	Substitute as an Interrupt.

Reflective Resonance			Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian, Mystic
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You or a Channeled Pokemon are hit by a super-effective attack.
     Effect: If any Channeled Pokemon resists or is immune to the elemental Type of the Move with a Damage Dice Roll, you or your pokemon instead take damage as if the attack were neutral.

Repel!						Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian, borrowed Mirror Coat or a high Loyalty Pokemon 
	who knows Mirror Coat
     Daily - Every 10 Levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use the Move Mirror Coat.



Safeguard				Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use the Move Safeguard.

Savior’s Plight			Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian, Guardian’s Blessing, 7 Guardian Features
     Daily - Every 25 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self, Trainers, or Pokemon
     Effect: You may use any Feature that targets only yourself as a free action.

Shared Struggle			Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian
     At-Will
     Target: An adjacent ally trainer or pokemon is hit by a damaging Move.
     Effect: You take half of the damage that would have been done to your ally. Your ally takes half of the damage it was supposed to take. Pokemon may not apply Defense or Special Defense to damage taken, and trainers, including yourself, may not apply any damage reduction modifiers.

Substitute				Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian, 5 Guardian Features
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Once per encounter, you may use the Move Substitute.

War of Attrition			Guardian Feature
     Prerequisites: Guardian, For the Team, 5 Guardian Features
     Daily - Every 20 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You use For The Team or Shared Struggle.
     Effect: Subtract your Strength Stat from the damage you would take. Ignore Shared Struggle’s clause about Trainers not being allowed to apply damage reduction, exclusivley for War of Attrition.

Rune Master


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Mystic, Channeled or 
	Possessed an Unown

	Bonus: +1 WIS


Base Features


Calling Chord		Rune Master Feature
     Daily 
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the roll exceeds 10, an Unown appears within 5 yards of you. If the roll exceeds 20, you may choose the Unown’s letter. It is not immediately hostile. Furthermore, each different Unown symbol counts as a different pokemon for the purposes of 
determining Pokemon owned.

Letter Press			Rune Master Feature
     At-Will
     Target: An Unown
     Effect: You may combine up a total of seven separate Unowns into one Pokemon.  Combined Unowns retain all different instances of Hidden Power.  When using Letter Press on Unown, for each instance of Hidden Power, choose whether it will operate on Attack stat or Special Attack stat. This choice is permanent. When combining Unowns, pick a Unown to be the Prime Unown of that combination. Whenever you add a Unown to a Prime Unown, add 3 points to any one of the Prime Unown’s Base stats. Unowns combined with Letter Press can be kept in a single Poke Ball. Once 
combined with Letter Press, Unowns cannot be separated.



Rune Master Features

Banish					Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Rune Master, 21 Unowns
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day, 
	you must have 8 Unown with you.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 15, the target is removed from the encounter and placed into a pocket dimension known as Unown Space for until the end of your next turn. At that time,  the target returns to the exact same spot it was, when it was Banished. The target does not feel any time lost during the it spends in Unown Space as a result of being hit by Banish. You may use Banish only once per encounter on any single target, but you may expend any number of uses of Banish at once to  increase the duration of the banishment by 1 round for each use. 

Borrow Power				Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Rune Master
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon you are channeling.
     Effect: Choose an instance of Hidden Power Move on the Channeled Pokemon’s Move List. You may peform this move immediately as a Trainer Action.  Use your STR mod as your Attack stat and your WIS mod as your Special Attack stat.

Dimension Gate			Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Rune Master, 14 Unowns
     Daily - Every 25 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day, 
	you must have 14 Unown with you.
     Target: An adjacent area, with nothing occupying the targeted area.
     Effect: Choose an area you have visited in the past year. In the targeted area a magic door opens that, when stepped through, acts as a one-way door, which teleports you to the area you chose. The door teleports you into an open space that is not occupied by anything, or the nearest available area that isn’t occupied by anything. 

Explosive Runes			Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisite: Rune Master, Borrow Power
     Daily
     Effect: Expend a use of Borrow Power, and pick an instance of Hidden Power you could have 
selected with it. You write a sigil of power in Unown script. When a condition, as decided by you, has been met, the sigil explodes in a burst, dealing damage as if you had activated Borrow Power. When a sigil is activated, you become instantly aware of the fact. Only one sigil within 5 meters may detonate at a time; if multiple sigils are triggered, you are still alerted for each one, however. You may have up to X sigils of power active, where X is your Wisdom modifier.

Extra Eyes				Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Rune Master
     Static
     Effect: Any time you or a Channeled Pokemon would be targeted by an attack, add one to the target’s Evasion Bonus for each other Channeled Pokemon who is facing the attacker.






Hidden Strength			Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Rune Master
     Static
     Effect: When you or any of your Prime Unown uses one of its Hidden Powers, you may choose to, 
instead of it acting as a Burst, have it act as a Column 1-meter wide, 15 meters long. Whenever your Prime Unown use Hidden Power, they always add +1/2 STAB to their damage roll, regardless of their typing. 

Rewrite					Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Rune Master
     Daily
     Target: A Prime Unown
     Effect: Choose one of the target’s instances of Hidden Power. You may then choose to reroll the Type for this instance or hidden power, or the base damage for this instance of hidden power.

Ruin						Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Rune Master, 14 Unowns
     Daily - As long as you have 14 Active Unowns
     Target: A Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Make up to three AC5 attack rolls against the same target, each time picking one of Paralyzed, Burned, Poisoned, Asleep, or Confused. If an attack hits, the target is inflicted with the appropriate 
status.

Sentry Runes				Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Rune Master
     Daily
     Effect: You write a sigil of warding in Unown script. You may, at any time, close your eyes to 
channel the sigil. While channeling the sigil, you may and look and listen through it, and project your voice through it. The sigil may be of any size, but your ability to perceive and communicate through it are proportional to the size of the sigil; tiny writing will allow for a view only as big as a keyhole, for 
example. If a sigil of warding is destroyed or damaged, you are instantly aware of the fact. You may have up to X sigils of warding active, where X is your Wisdom modifier.

Unown Arms				Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Rune Master, 5 Rune Master Features
     Daily - Every 20 Levels gained, you may perform this feature another time per day.
     Target: A Prime Unown
     Effect: The Prime Unown turns into a weapon of your choice. When used with an Arms Feature, an Unown Weapon deals additional damage equal to the Prime Unown’s STAB value. Unown Weapons can be used to block incoming attacks, causing the Prime Unown to take the damage in your stead. This 
effect lasts up to 24 hours, or until the Prime Unown is knocked out or recalled. Prime Unown cannot use moves or special capabilities while in this state.

Wordsmith				Rune Master Feature
     Prerequisites: Rune Master, 20 WIS
     Static
     Effect: You understand all written language. You know the meaning of any word you read, and can 
fluently read and understand any written passage, even if you cannot speak it.

Shaman


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Mystic, Zoopathy

	Bonus: +1 WIS


Base Features

Possession					Shaman Feature
     At-Will - Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll a Link Check, subtract half of your Wisdom stat from the result. If you Channel the Pokemon, it is Possessed. While Possessed, you are in complete control of the Pokemon. You may act during an Encounter as any normal Pokemon would. You have access to the Pokemon’s Move List, Abilities and Capabilities. You may leave a Possessed Pokemon during your turn as a Trainer Action. If you are Possessing a Pokemon and you are captured, you are trapped until the Pokemon is sent out of its Poke Ball, at which point you may remove yourself from the Pokemon. You may use Trainer Features while Possessing a Pokemon, unless the Feature specifically says that you cannot. While Possessing a Pokemon, using a Move counts as your Trainer Action. If the Pokemon you are possessing faints, you may immediately return to your body.  If you are Possessing a Pokemon and they are die, you die as well. While you are Possessing a Pokemon, your Body is left 
unconscious. It cannot make checks and it may not act on its own accord. You may Channel multiple Pokemon with Mystic Features, but you may only Possess one Pokemon at a time. 

Possession Borrow				Shaman Feature
     Daily
     Trigger: You leave a Pokemon you were Possessing.
     Effect: Choose a Move on the Pokemon’s Move List, whom you are leaving after Possessing them. This is considered a Borrowed Move. You may perform the Borrowed Move, once, as a Trainer Action during the next 24 hours. Use your STR modifier as your attack stat, and your WIS modifier as your special attack stat.

	Mechanic: A Shaman who is possessing a Pokemon can still make a Trainer Action, can still Issue a Command and may still Shift. To Shift they must use the Possessed Pokemon’s Speed Capabilities. If during your Trainer Action you use a Feat that enables you to use a Pokemon Move, you use the Possessed Pokemon’s appropriate stats instead of your own. If you use a Feature that requires you to use HP, use the posessed Pokemon’s HP. Your Command works as normal.


Shaman Features

Channel Strength				Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman, 4 Shaman features.
     Static
     Effect: Whenever a Channeled Pokemon uses a Move that damages a target while you are Possessing a Pokemon, add 1d6 to the Damage Dice Roll for each other Channeled Pokemon.

Commune With Nature			Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman
     At-Will
     Effect: Whenever a Pokemon gains experience while you are Possessing them you may sacrifice 5 HP of your Trainer HP. If you do, the Pokemon gains +50% the amount of experience they would gain. You may only apply this Commune With Nature once per encounter. 

Dominant Trait				Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman, 4 Shaman features.
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: Your mental connection to Pokemon you are Possessing is strengthened; their minds are more difficult to influence.  When a Pokemon you are Possessing is afflicted with Infatuation, Confusion or Sleep, you may activate Dominant Trait.  Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 10 Dominant Trait clears the Status Affliction.  

Fangs						Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman
     Daily
     Trigger: You hit with a Melee Range Move (this can also be while Possessing a Pokemon)
     Effect: Gain HP equal to half the damage dealt with the attack. 

Ferocious Embodiment			Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman
     Static
     Effect: Whenever a Pokemon you are possessing uses a Move that deals damage to a target, add your WIS modifier to the Damage Dice Roll.

Loan Shark					Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman
     Static
     Effect: You may perform Borrowed Moves and Possession Borrowed Moves while Possessing a 
Pokemon, even if it’s not the Pokemon you Borrowed the Move from.













Natural Selection			Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: When you are leaving the body of a Possessed Pokemon, you may use Natural Selection.
Choose one of the following Capabilities.  If the Pokemon you are possessing has this Capability,
gain that Capability for the next 24 hours: Alluring, Aura, Chilled, Dream Smoke, Firestarter, Fountain, Freezer, Gilled, Glow, Groundshaper, Guster, Heater, Icestep, Inflatable, Magnetic, Materializer, Mind Lock, Pack Mon, Shrinkable, Sprouter, Stealth, Threaded, Tracker, Zapper. Your physical human form changes appropriately per Capability. 

Nature Skin					Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman, Mystic Veil
     Static
     Effect: Add your WIS modifier added to your STR modifier multiplied by 5 to your total HP. This only applies to your human body.  This Feature replaces Mystic Veil.

Primal Surge					Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman
     Static
     Effect: The Pokemon you are Possessing has its Speed related Capabilities increased by X where X is half your WIS modifier.

Share with Nature			Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman, Owned Pokemon who is loyal and has evolved at least once
     Static
     Effect: When you target a loyal Pokemon you own with Possession, you automatically pass your Link Check.

Survival of the Fittest		Shaman Feature
     Prerequisites: Shaman, 6 Shaman Features
     Daily
     Effect: While Possessing a Pokemon, Survival of the Fittest allows you to use any Move on the 
Possessed Pokemon’s Level Up Move List list that could be learned by level X. X is the sum of the 
Possessed Pokemon’s level and your Level.

Touched


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Mystic, has allied a Legendary
	Pokemon, a muscial instrument

	Bonus: +1 STR


Base Features


Soothing Song			Touched Feature
     Daily 
     Target: Legendary Pokemon within line of sight.
     Effect: The target gains 100 HP.

Tired Tune				Touched Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: Using Tired Tune ends your turn. If this is the third time you used Tired Tune in a row, use the Move Sing before ending your turn.

	Mechanic: The Touched uses musical instruments to play music. Touched characters may not issue commands, unless they have a means to communicate with their Pokemon while playing music (Pokemon may, with Intelligence 4 or greater for example, be able to understand musical cues to use moves, or if you can communicate telepathically, you could also get by this need to play music). The way their Features work depend on your playing music for a set amount of time, then activating the Features actual effects after some set time. You may not use more then one Touched Feature per turn. You may not use the same Touched Feature more than once per turn, either. If you are using a Touched Feature, that says that you may use an effect if you’ve performed the Touched Feature 
during previous turns, they may be activated multiple turns in a row (Meaning a Touched Feature that activates on its third turn of use, it will also activate on a fourth, fifth or sixth turn afterwards, etc.).


Touched Features

Airy Anthem					Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched, 17 STR
     At-Will
     Effect: Using Airy Anthem ends your turn. If this is the third time you used Airy Anthem in a row, use the Move Whirlwind before ending your turn and you may not use Airy Anthem on your next turn 
during the next round.

Able Aria					Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched, 16 STR
     At-Will
     Effect: Using Able Aria ends your turn. If this is the third time you used Able Aria in a row, use the Move Aromatherapy before ending your turn.

Cardinal Concert				Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched, 7 Touched Features
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add STR modifier. If the total exceeds 10, the target heals 100 HP.

Climate Carol				Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched
     At-Will
     Effect: Using Climate Carol ends your turn. If this is the fourth time you used Climate Carol in a row, use the Move Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Sandstorm or Hail before ending your turn. 

Carrying Chorus				Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched, 5 Touched Features
     At-Will
     Effect: If you used Tired Tune, Able Aria, Climate Carol, Daunting Descant, Exhausted Expression, Heroic Hymn, Nauseous Number, Odd Opera, or Perish Piece, during your last turn you may use 
Carrying Chorus. Carrying Chorus ends your turn. Using Carrying Chorus makes all future uses of any of the listed Touched Features count all previously used Touched Features and Carrying Chorus as the next listed Touched Feature you use. This means, that if you used Tired Tune, then Carrying Chorus, then Climate Carol it would count as you using Climate Carol for three turns.

Daunting Descant				Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched
     At-Will
     Effect: Using Daunting Descant ends your turn. If this is the second time you used Daunting Descant in a row, use the Move Mean Look before ending your turn. 










Exhausted Expression			Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched
     At-Will
     Effect: Using Exhausted Expression ends your turn. If this is the second time you used Exhausted Expression in a row, target Pokemon is lowered 1 Combat Stage for the Stat of your choice other than HP before ending your turn. 

Harmonious Harbinger			Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched, 16 STR
     Static
     Effect: Divide your STR modifier in half. Subtract this number from the number of turns needed to have a Touched Feature activate its effect. For example, if you are using Heroic Hymn, which  activates on the seventh use, and you have a 4 STR modifier, subtract two from the seven turns it takes to activate Heroic Hymn’s power, making it activate in five turns and read as “If this is the fifth time you used 
Heroic Hymn in a row...” No activation can be lowered to less than two, meaning a Feature’s activate time cannot read “If this is the first time you used Touched Feature X...” It must always at least read, “If this is the second time you used Touched Feature X in a row,...”

Heroic Hymn					Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched, 5 Touched Features
     At-Will
     Effect: Using Heroic Hymn ends your turn. If this is the seventh time you used Heroic Hymn in a row, all adjacent allies gain 2 Combat Stages for any Stat, per ally before ending your turn and you may not use Heroic Hymn on your next three turns during the next three rounds. 

Nauseous Number				Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched
     At-Will
     Effect: Using Nauseous Number ends your turn. If this is the third time you used Nauseous Number in a row, use the Move Teeter Dance before ending your turn and you may not use Nauseous Number on your next turn during the next round. 

Odd Opera					Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched
     At-Will
     Effect: Using Odd Opera ends your turn. If this is the fourth time you used Odd Opera in a row, use the Move Trick Room, Magic Room or Gravity before ending your turn. 

Perish Piece					Touched Feature
     Prerequisites: Touched
     At-Will
     Effect: Using Perish Piece ends your turn. If this is the fourth time you used Perish Piece in a row, use the Move Perish Song before ending your turn.

Psychic


	Class Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	13 INT, 13 CON
	
	Bonuses: +1 INT +1 CON
	Penalties: -2 STR



Base Features


Telekinesis					Psychic Feature
     At-Will
     Target: Any object that you may lift.
     Effect: Add your INT and CON modifiers and multiply the total by 5 pounds. This represents the weight you may lift and items you may target with Telekinesis. Multiply your INT and CON 
modifiers then multiply that product by 3-meters. This is how far the target can be. You may not move that target more than the range of your Telekinesis. You need a line of sight to target the object. You can Shift the target up to X meters/spaces per turn where X is your INT or CON modifier. 

Telepathy					Psychic Feature
     At-Will
     Target: Any other human, some may be immune to Telepathy
     Effect: You may read the surface thoughts of other humans, as well as project your surface thoughts to other humans. You may also project telepathic message to your Pokemon, but may not read your Pokemon’s minds.

	Mechanic: Some Features leave Psychic Residue.  Psychics can “see” residue and identify the culprit of said residue if they see that particular Psychic in action. Keep in mind that while Psychics are not very commonplace, they are only a little less common than any other Class- granted not all Psychics choose to explore their Psychic potential. This means that it isn’t unreasonable for a city to have at least one Psychic on its police or Ranger force. A smaller town or village might not have its own Psychic, however.


Psychic Features

Extrasensory					Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, 16 INT (or 16 CON)
     At-Will – Drains 8 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: A human or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Extrasensory. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Gravity						Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, Trick Room
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: No Target
     Effect: Use the Move Gravity. 

Light Screen					Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, 15 INT, a Pokemon who knows the Move Light Screen
     At-Will – Drains 5 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: No Target
     Effect: Use the Move Light Screen. 

Magic Room					Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, Trick Room
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: A human or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Magic Room. 

Phasing						Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, 15 INT, 17 CON
     At-Will – Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Your CON modifier is X.  You may move through solid objects for X seconds. Moves will miss and pass through you if you are Phasing. If you are still in a solid object after X seconds, you must 
reactivate Phasing to prevent death. If you run out of HP and are still in a solid object, you die. You may not make a death savings throw if you die while Phasing. You may take up to X people with you while Phasing. If you stop Phasing, they stop Phasing. If you stop Phasing someone you are Phasing, you stop Phasing as well. If you place a person into an object, and then stop Phasing them while they are still in that object, they may make a Savings throw of 7 on 1d20 to continue Phasing for X seconds, at which point they will stop Phasing. As a Free Action, anyone (Trainer or Pokemon) may resist Phasing.

Probability Control			Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, 16 INT
     At-Will – Drains 5 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Any roll.
     Effect: You may reroll any die, or have any ally reroll any die. For every time you use this ability per day, past the first use on any day, your GM gets one Murphy’s Law point. They may use this point to have you reroll any die that you haven’t targeted with Probability Control, the GM may only target your dice rolls with Murphy’s Law Points.





Psychic Finder				Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, 16 INT
     At-Will
     Target: Human or Pokemon.
     Effect: You can identify if a psychic has affected someone’s mind and identify the meddler, human and Pokemon alike by recognizing Psychic Residue. Also, as a free action, you may also roll 1d20 when using a Feature which leaves Psychic Residue. If your roll plus your INT modifier is higher then 15, you leave no psychic residue. 

Psychic Force				Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, 18 INT (or 18 CON), a Pokemon who knows the Move Psychic
     At-Will - Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Psychic. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Psychokinesis				Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, 19 INT
     At-Will 
     Target: Any object that you may lift.
     Effect: You may target objects you know of, but cannot see, with Telekinesis. You do not need a line of sight to move those objects.

Reflect						Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, 15 INT, a pokemon who knows the Move Reflect
     At-Will – Drains 5 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: No Target
     Effect: Use the Move Reflect. 

Reflect Type					Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, 16 CON,16 INT
     Daily – Drains 8 of user’s HP per use. 
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use the Move Reflect Type.

Teleport						Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, 17 INT
     At-Will – Drains 15 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use the Move Teleport. 

Trick Room					Psychic Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: No Target.
     Effect: Use the Move Trick Room. 

Air Adept


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Psychic, 2 Flying and/or Electric 
	type Pokemon

	Bonus: +1 CON


Base Features


Aerokinesis				Air Adept Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: You may target air up to X meters away with Telekinesis to produce short, but powerful, bursts of air. You can move air rapidly and produce a steady flow of wind that blows at X miles per hour. X is your CON modifier multiplied by 3.

Electrokinesis			Air Adept Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: You may target electricity up to X meters away with Telekinesis and redirect it. X is your CON modifier multiplied by 5. You can also generate electricity in the air with Telekinesis to produce short, but powerful, bursts of electricity.

	Mechanic: Kinesis Features function without applying your base Telekinesis; they replace 
Telekinesis when targeting certain elements. In the event that a modifier would be 0 or less when 
using a Kinesis Feature, your modifier is 1.


Air Adept Features

Aerodynamics					Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept, Defog, a Pokemon with 20 Speed or higher
     Static
     Effect: While the weather is Clear, you are treated as if your DEX was one point higher than the trainer immediately before you in action order, but only for the purposes of who acts first, not for 
evasion or features.

Air Slash					Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept, 2 Flying Type Pokemon
     At-Will – Drains 15 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Air Slash. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Charge						Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept
     At-Will – Drains 5 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use the Move Charge.

Defog						Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept
     At-Will – Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: No Target.
     Effect: Use the Move Defog.

Discharge					Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept, 2 Electric Type Pokemon
     At-Will – Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Discharge. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.
 
Flight						Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept, a Pokemon with a Sky Speed capability
     Static - Costs 2 HP for every round of use in combat, 
	or 5 HP for every minute of use when not in combat.
     Effect: You are treated as if you have a Sky Speed, using your CON modifier as the value.

Hurricane					Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept, Air Slash, Level 15
     At-Will – Drains 25 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Hurricane. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.









Magnetic						Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept, a Pokemon with Magnetic
     Static
     Effect: You are treated as if you have the Magnetic capability.

Mass Levitation				Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept, Flight
     At-Will - Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Willing Trainers or Pokemon.
     Effect: While using Flight, once per round, you may decrease your maximum Speed Capability by an amount that is at least 1 and at most your CON modifier minus 1, and divide that amount however you want between all targets. For every round this Feature is in effect, you must pay 5 additional HP.

Tailwind						Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept, 2 features that enable the use of Flying-type moves
     At-Will – Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Area.
     Effect: Use the Move Tailwind.

Thunderbolt					Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept, Discharge, Level 10
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Thunderbolt. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Thunder Wave					Air Adept Feature
     Prerequisites: Air Adept, 2 features that enable the use of Electric-type moves
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Thunder Wave.


Clairsentient


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Psychic, 22 INT

	Bonus: +1 INT


Base Features


Hour’s Past			Clairsentient Feature
     At-Will
     Target: An item, or the exact location you are at.
     Effect: You can view a psychic panel summary of what has happened to that item or area in the past hour. The images are jumbled and might not be chronological order. 

Image Tailing		Clairsentient Feature
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An image seen while reading an object’s past. 
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If the total exceeds 15, you can follow a part of the object’s past. You may follow a ghostly image, seen only by yourself, of a person, pokemon or other object that came into contact with the object you were reading and left. The ghostly image can only be followed for up to a mile from the spot you began to read.



Clairsentient Features

Clairaudience			Clairsentient Feature
     Prerequisites: Clairsentient, INT 24
     Static
     Effect: You can hear sounds that occurred while using Hour’s Past, Day’s Past and Item’s Past. You also can tell when a person is lying to you; unless they believe what they are saying is true.

Clairvoyance				Clairsentient Feature
     Prerequisites: Clairsentient, CON 17
     Static
     Effect: When making an attack, subtract 5 from any Accuracy Checks you make. You can see through illusions. 

Day’s Past				Clairsentient Feature
     Prerequisites: Clairsentient
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An item, or the exact location you are at.
     Effect: You can view a psychic panel summary of what has happened to that item or area in the past 24 hours. The images are jumbled and might not be chronological order. 

Dispel Illusion			Clairsentient Feature
     Prerequisites: Clairsentient, Clairvoyance
     Daily
     Target: An illusion.
     Effect: You can eliminate an illusion by touching the area it is projected upon. You can see through illusions and disguises but you cannot dispel them for other people and Pokemon to see more then once per day. Although you can see through disguises, you cannot phsycailly force the disguise to be reverted. An example of a disguise would be a Ditto’s transformation. An example of illusions would be a a Double Team or some other source of magical illusion.

Itemfinder				Clairsentient Feature
     Prerequisites: Clairsentient, an item of your choice to be used for dowsing
     Daily – Every 4 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: The exact location you are at.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If the total exceeds 20, you will be guided to a nearby dropped item. The item found will depend on your location.
















Item’s Past			Clairsentient Feature
     Prerequisites: Clairsentient, 26 INT, Day’s Past
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An item, or the exact location you are at.
     Effect: You can view a psychic panel summary of what has happened to that item or area in the past week. If the item or place has historical significance within the past decade, you are aware of it, but 
exactly what happened isn’t necessarily clear. This Feature replaces Day’s Past.

Personfinder			Clairsentient Feature
     Prerequisites: Clairsentient, Itemfinder
     Daily
     Target: A person you have met and physically touched before.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If the total exceeds 15, you know the direction of a 
person you are looking for.

Personfinder +		Clairsentient Feature
     Prerequisites: Clairsentient, Personfinder
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A person you have met and physically touched before.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If the total exceeds 15, you know the direction of a person you are looking for and an estimated distance between that person and yourself. This Feature replaces Personfinder.

Psychometry			Clairsentient Feature
     Prerequisites: Clairsentient, an item of your choice to be used for dowsing
     At-Will
     Target: An item.
     Effect: You know the purpose of any non-living thing that you touch. You know of any special abilities the item grants. You also know how to activate any item.

Earth Shaker


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Psychic, 2 Ground, Rock and/or 
	Grass type Pokemon

	Bonus: +1 CON


Base Features


Botanokinesis			Earth Shaker Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: When targeting any type of plant with Telekinesis, multiply your INT and CON modifier’s sum by 10 pounds instead of 5 pounds. You can rapidly grow any plant you can lift 5 ft per round by subtracting 10 HP from yourself.

Terrakinesis				Earth Shaker Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: When targeting any type of rock or piece of ground with Telekinesis, multiply your INT and CON modifier’s sum by 10 pounds instead of 5 pounds. You can mold earth into rock and break up rock into dirt. As long as you are conscious, you and your non-Pokemon allies within 10 meters do not take damage from Sandstorm.

	Mechanic: Kinesis Features function without applying your base Telekinesis; they replace 
Telekinesis when targeting certain elements. In the event that a modifier would be 0 or less when 
using a Kinesis Feature, your modifier is 1.



Earth Shaker Features

Aromatherapy				Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker, two features that allow the use of Grass Type moves
     At-Will - Drains 15 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the move Aromatherapy.

Cotton Spore				Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker
     At-Will: Drains 5 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the move Cotton Spore.

Digger					Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker, a Pokemon with a Burrow Speed Capability
     Static - Costs 2 HP for every round of use in combat, 
	or 5 HP for every minute of use when not in combat.
     Effect: You are treated as if you have a Burrow Speed, using your CON modifier as the value.

Earth Vision				Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker, Materializer
     Static
     Effect: You may now see through rock, dirt, ground, sand etc as if it were not there, for a distance of up to X meters, where X is your CON modifier plus your INT modifier.

Giga Drain				Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker, 2 Grass Type Pokemon
     At-Will - Drains 15 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Giga Drain. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Leaf Storm				Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker, Giga Drain, level 15
     At-Will – Drains 25 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Leaf Storm. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.
















Materializer					Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker, a Pokemon with Materializer
     Static
     Effect: You are treated as if you have the Materializer capability.

Rock Slide					Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker, 2 Rock Type Pokemon
     At-Will - Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Rock Slide. Use your Constitution Stat as your ATK stat.
 
Sandstorm					Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker, 5 Earth Shaker features
     At-Will - Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Effect: Use the Move Sandstorm.

Sand Tomb					Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker
     At-Will - Drains 7 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainers or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the move Sand Tomb. Use your CON stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Sand-Attack					Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker
     At-Will: Drains 5 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainers or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the move Sand-Attack.

Stone Edge					Earth Shaker Feature
     Prerequisites: Earth Shaker, Rock Slide, Level 10
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Stone Edge. Use your Constitution Stat as your ATK stat.

Empath


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Psychic, a Pokemon you’ve 
	leveled up through training 
	25 levels

	Bonus: +1 INT


Base Features


Calming Vibe					Empath Feature
     At-Will – Drains 7 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: You calm the target, curing it of Confusion. Calming Vibe can calm rages, focus a distorted mind, or neutralize a paranoid panic. In order to use Calming Vibe, the Trainer must be in a calm state of mind. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Light Healing Power			Empath Feature
     Daily – Every 4 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Roll 1d12+6 and add twice your INT modifier. The target heals that many Hit Points. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.


Empath Features

Bonds					Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath, Connection
     Static
     Effect: While unconscious, your Pokemon can act on their accord as if you are not unconscious. You may only have as many Pokemon acting per round of an encounter as if you were conscious.

Connection				Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath, 4 Pokemon you’ve leveled up through training 15 levels
     Static
     Target: Your Pokemon.
     Effect: You understand any owned Pokemon’s thoughts.

Digging					Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, Empath, 18 INT
     Static
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: You may read thoughts from the past four hours in a mind with Telepathy. Using this on a 
target leaves discoverable psychic residue.
 
Healing Power			Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath
     Daily – Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Roll 2d12+12 and add twice your INT modifier. The target heals that many Hit Points. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Heal the Body			Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath, 16 INT, Cured Burn and/or Poison three times with items or features
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers
     Effect: Cures the target of Burn and Poison. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Mend the Mind			Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath, 16 INT, Cured Paralysis and/or Sleep three times with items or features
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers
     Effect: Cures the target of Paralysis and Sleep. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic 
residue.

Major Healing Power		Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath, 18 INT, Healing Power
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Roll 3d12+18 and add your INT stat. The target heals that many Hit Points. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.





Natural Connection			Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath, Connection, 20 INT
     Static
     Target: Pokemon.
     Effect: You understand Pokemon’s thoughts. This Feature replaces Connection.

Serious Healing Power		Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath, 24 INT, Major Healing Power
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Roll 4d12+24 and add your INT stat. The target heals that many Hit Points. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Pain Share					Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath
     At-Will
     Target: A Pokemon or Trainer taking damage.
     Effect: You may half the damage the target takes. If you do, subtract the amount of damage you 
prevent from your HP, then subtract another 5 HP from your HP for each time you’ve used Pain Share during that day before this instance.

Pain Split					Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath, 16 INT, Pain Share
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Pain Split. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Rest							Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath, 22 INT, a Pokemon with Move that recovers HP.
     Daily
     Target: Self.
     Effect: After a ten-minute break you recover your full HP.

Trying On Shoes				Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Psychic, Empath, Digging
     At-Will
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: You may read thoughts from the past day in a mind with Telepathy. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Wish							Empath Feature
     Prerequisites: Empath, 20 INT
     Daily
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Wish. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Fire Breather


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Psychic, 2 Fire, Dark and/or 
	Ghost type Pokemon

	Bonus: +1 CON


Base Features


Photokinesis				Fire Breather Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: You may target light with Telekinesis and produce more light or take it away. You may remove light from an area completely or spontaneously generate light. Photokinesis has a maximum range of X, where X is your CON modifier multiplied by your INT modifier multiplied by 3 meters. If either modifier is negative or zero, use 1 as that modifier instead.

Pyrokinesis				Fire Breather Feature
     At-Will
     Effect: You may target fire up to X meters away with Telekinesis and redirect it. X is your CON modifier multiplied by 5. You can also generate fire in the air with Telekinesis to produce short, but powerful, bursts of fire.

	Mechanic: Kinesis Features function without applying your base Telekinesis; they replace 
Telekinesis when targeting certain elements. In the event that a modifier would be 0 or less when 
using a Kinesis Feature, your modifier is 1.



Fire Breather Features

Double Team				Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather, a Pokemon who knows the Move Double Team
     At-Will – Drains 25 of user’s HP per use.
     Effect: Use the Move Double Team. You may not have more then three copies of yourself at any time. The copies fade after 10 minutes.

Fire Blast				Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather, Lava Plume, Level 15
     At-Will – Drains 25 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Fire Blast. Use your CON stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Fire Spin				Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather
     At-Will – Drains 7 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Fire Spin. Use your CON stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Flash					Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather
     At-Will – Drains 5 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the attack Flash.

Heat Seeker				Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather
     Static
     Effect: You can see in the infrared spectrum, allowing you to easily view sources of heat.

Lava Plume				Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather, 2 Fire Type Pokemon
     At-Will – Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Lava Plume. Use your CON stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Mirage					Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather, Photokinesis
     At-Will - Drains 20 of user’s HP per use
     Effect: You create a visual illusion. You must remain within 10 meters of the Mirage and concentrate to maintain and control the illusion. No one dimension of the illusion may exceed X meters, and the 
illusion persists for Y minutes. At the end of this time, you may continue to maintain the illusion by paying Mirage’s activation cost again. X is your CON modifier halved. Y is your CON modifier. You may only have one Mirage active at any given time.







Night Daze				Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather, Shadow Ball, level 10
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Night Daze. Use your CON stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Shadow Ball				Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather, 2 Ghost or Dark Type Pokemon
     At-Will – Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Shadow Ball. Use your CON stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Shimmering Shroud		Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather
     Static
     Effect: When a Move that you use via Fire Breather Features modifies accuracy checks, it modifies the check by one more than it would have.

Shadow Walker			Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather, a Pokemon with Invisibility Capability
     Static
     Effect: You gain the Invisibility capability. Activating the capability costs 15 HP per use. You may not use any Features that do damage or allow you to use Pokemon Moves while Invisible.

Sunny Day				Fire Breather Feature
     Prerequisites: Fire Breather, 4 Fire Breather features
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: User.
     Effect: Use the Move Sunny Day.

Hex Maniac


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Psychic, 18 INT, a tool or 
	symbol of your choice for 
	Hexing (25)

	Bonus: +1 INT


Base Features


Glare					Hex Maniac Feature		
     At-Will - Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Glare.  

Mental Suggestion		Hex Maniac Feature
     Daily – Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If the total exceeds 20, you may place a suggestion into the target’s mind. The target doesn’t need to act on it, nor do they immediately know why they thought of it.


Hex Maniac Features

Confuse Ray					Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac, a Pokemon who knows the Move Confuse Ray
     At-Will - Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Confuse Ray.  Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Curse						Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac, a Pokemon who knows the Move Curse
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Curse as if you are Ghost Type.  Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Dream Eater					Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Sleeping Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Dream Eater.  Use your Intelligence Stat as your SP. ATK stat. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Fake Tears					Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac
     At-Will - Drains 8 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Fake Tears.  

Featherdance					Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac
     At-Will - Drains 8 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Featherdance.  

Fumble						Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac, 4 Hex Maniac Features
     At-Will - Drains 25 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Force the target to reroll any successful check.  Using this on a target leaves discoverable 
psychic residue. For every time you use this ability per day, past the first use on any day, your GM gets one Murphy’s Law point. They may use this point to have you reroll any die you did not target with 
Fumble, the GM may only target your dice rolls with Murphy’s Law Points.











Hex							Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac
     At-Will - Drains 15 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Hex. Use your Intelligence Stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Hypnosis						Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac, 3 Hex Maniac features
     At-Will - Drains 25 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Hypnosis.  

Mind Control					Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac, 28 INT, Level 18, Now to Act
     At-Will – Drains 25 HP every 6 seconds.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: You have control of the target entirely. You know what they know and can have them do 
anything they are capable of doing. If you use mind control for more then 30 seconds at a time, you drain 40 HP every 6 seconds.  Anyone may try to break out from Mind Control by making a Will check as a Free Action. The Check is to roll equal to or greater than the difference between the Mind 
Controller’s Intelligence and the target’s Intelligence on 1d20, adding the target’s INT modifier. If the check is successful, the Mind Controller does not lose the 25, or 40, HP they would have if they were successful in Mind Controlling the target. If the target breaks free of Mind Control, they may not be 
targeted by Mind Control again for at least 48 hours. The target may attempt the Will check once per round. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue. 

Now to Act					Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac
     At-Will – Drains 25 of user’s HP per use. 
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If the total exceeds 15, the target will act on a 
suggestion on their mind. If the suggestion is entirely contradictory to their regular behavior, they will be hesitant throughout the execution of the suggestion. If it isn’t possible to execute the 
suggestion, they will fail trying. They may make one Will check to avoid executing the suggestion. They must roll above 16 on 1d20 adding the target’s INT modifier. Using this on a target leaves discoverable psychic residue.

Poison Gas					Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac, 3 Hex Maniac features
     At-Will - Drains 15 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Poison Gas.  

Will-O-Wisp					Hex Maniac Feature
     Prerequisites: Hex Maniac, 6 Hex Maniac features
     At-Will - Drains 15 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Will-O-Wisp.  


Rain Waker


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Psychic, 2 Water and/or Ice 
	type Pokemon

	Bonus: +1 CON


Base Features


Cryokinesis					Rain Waker
     At-Will
     Effect: When targeting any type of frozen water with Telekinesis, multiply your INT and CON modifier’s sum by 10 pounds instead of 5 pounds. You can mold ice into other forms of ice and freeze water by thought. As long as you are conscious, you and your non-Pokemon allies within 10 meters do not take damage from Hail.

Hydrokinesis					Rain Waker
     At-Will
     Effect: When targeting any type of water with Telekinesis, multiply your INT and CON modifier’s sum by 10 pounds instead of 5 pounds. You can mold water into other forms of water and produce small quantities of water from the air by thought.

	Mechanic: Kinesis Features function without applying your base Telekinesis; they replace 
Telekinesis when targeting certain elements. In the event that a modifier would be 0 or less when 
using a Kinesis Feature, your modifier is 1.


Rain Waker Features

Blizzard						Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker, Icicle Crash, level 15
     At-Will – Drains 25 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Blizzard. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Cool Running					Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker, Cryokinesis
     Static
     Effect: You gain the Icestep capability. In addition, you may cross still or slow-moving water by 
walking on the surface.

Hail							Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker, 5 Rain Waker features
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: No Target.
     Effect: Use the Move Hail.

Haze							Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker
     At-Will – Drains 8 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: No Target.
     Effect: Use the Move Haze.

Icicle Crash					Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker, 2 Ice Type Pokemon
     At-Will – Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Icicle Crash. Use your Constitution Stat as your ATK stat.

Mist							Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker
     At-Will – Drains 8 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: No Target.
     Effect: Use the Move Mist.

Rain Dance					Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker, 5 Rain Waker features
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: No Target.
     Effect: Use the Move Rain Dance.










Rainy Mood					Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker, Rain Dance or Hail
     Static
     Effect: As long as either you are near a large body of water such as a lake or ocean or the weather is      Rain or Hail, you may have water and ice typed Pokemon Moves you use via Rain Waker Features 
originate at significant sources of water nearby. Significant sources of water are at least enough to 
submerge a Small sized Pokemon.

Splash Damage				Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker
     At-Will - Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Trigger: You use an Ice or Water Typed Move
     Effect: The Move you use hits an additional adjacent target. If the Move you use already hits an area, instead choose an additional target adjacent to any edge of the area of effect. Activate Splash Damage only once per Move. Splash Damage drains only 5 HP if you are using a Water Typed Move and Rain is active or if you are using an Ice Typed Move and Hail is active.

Surf							Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker, Waterfall, level 10
     At-Will – Drains 20 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Surf. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.

Swimmer						Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker, a Pokemon with Surface and Underwater Speed Capabilities
     Static
     Effect: You are treated as if you have Surface and Underwater Speeds, adding your CON modifier to the value of your Overland Speed. You may breathe underwater for X mins per hour, were X is your Constitution stat in minutes.

Waterfall					Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker, 2 Water Type Pokemon
     At-Will – Drains 10 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Trainer or Pokemon.
     Effect: Use the Move Waterfall. Use your Constitution Stat as your ATK stat.

Whirlpool					Rain Waker
     Prerequisites: Rain Waker
     At-Will – Drains 7 of user’s HP per use.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Whirlpool. Use your Constitution Stat as your SP. ATK stat.



Ranger


	Class Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	13 CHA, 13 DEX
	
	Bonuses: +1 CHA +1 DEX
	Penalties: -2 CON


Base Features

Befriend					Ranger Feature
     At-Will
     Target: A Restrained Pokemon.
     Effect: Give the Pokemon the Helpful title. This ally will remain under the Ranger’s guidance until it is hit by an attack, severely distracted, or has helped the Ranger in a significant manner once, such as by making an attack. You do not get a list of any capabilities or moves you cannot deduce yourself, and it cannot be taken from the area you found it in or it will run away. You may only give the 
Helpful title to one Pokemon at a time.

Companion				Ranger Feature
     At-Will
     Target: A previously wild, Restrained Pokemon.
     Effect: Give the Pokemon the Companion title. You may only have one Companion at a time. If
you give a new Pokemon the Companion title, you free your previous Companion and replace it with your new one. This process starts the Companion at Loyalty 2 at least and obedient towards the Ranger, regardless of circumstances before being Restrained. The Companion gains experience and levels exactly like a Captured Pokemon, as well as counting as Owned for the purposes of levels and features, but cannot participate in official battles or contests (doing so is fraud). The Pokemon cannot be returned to a Poke Ball, and Pokemon Centers may charge more for healing a Companion. Companions are considered Helpful, but act in combat as if they were owned.
     
	Restrain Mechanic: Restraining is a special kind of Capture Check that uses a Ranger’s Styler. To attempt to Restrain a Pokemon, roll 1d100 and subtract 10. If the result is equal and less than the Pokemon’s unmodified capture rate, they are Restrained’.



Ranger Features
    
Authority Figure				Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger, 18 CHA, recognized as having performed distinguished service
     Static
     Effect: You take on the responsibilities of a ranking Ranger officer. You may give orders to Rangers and police officers. A police chief may overrule your orders to police, but none may overrule your orders to Rangers. When requesting assistance from a local Ranger station on an important issue, you are 
obligated to receive help in some form except for in extraordinary circumstances.
    
Befriender					Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger
     Static
     Effect: You may subtract an additional 10 from your Restrain rolls, and you may give the Helpful title to two additional Pokemon. You may take this feature up to two times, for a total of -30 on Restrain Rolls and 5 Helpful Pokemon.
    
Dizzy						Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger, 17 DEX
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon or trainer.
     Effect:  Roll 1d20 and add your DEX or CHA modifier. If the total is 15 or higher, the Target is 
Confused. Use of this feature requires your Capture Styler. 
    
Dragonite Bus				Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger, Authority Figure
     Weekly
     Effect: You may call the Dragonite Bus to schedule transportation from any major city to any other major city, provided there are no major bodies of water between the cities. You must make plans at least 24 hours ahead of time.
    
Part Of The Team				Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger, a Companion that has been with you for two months.
     One Time Use Only - After taking Part of the Team, you gain one additional use, per 10 levels gained.
     Target: Your Companion that has been with you for at least a month.
     Effect: Spend one hour talking and negotiating with the target and roll 1d100, subtracting half of your Charisma stat from the roll. If you roll under the Pokemon’s Loyalty multiplied by 10, then the target will agree to being captured by you. After capturing, the Pokemon is still considered your Companion for the purposes of features. You may designate a new Companion as if the previous one had been released without removing the Companion title from the target. If Part of The Team fails, its use is not depleted. 
    
Perfect Practice				Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger, 16 DEX
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Restrain roll.
     Effect: When Restraining a Pokemon, subtract your DEX or CHA modifier multiplied by 3 from your Restrain roll. This may only be used once per restrain roll. If you successfully restrain a Pokemon when using this feature, you are given a partial list of moves known by the Pokemon, and know of all available capabilities. 
    

































Poke-Assist					Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger, one Advanced Class with Ranger as a prerequisite, Level 10.
     Daily - Every 15 levels, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Companion or a Helpful Pokemon.
     Effect: For a number of rounds equal to half of either your DEX or CHA modifiers, the target acts on its own in combat, attacking opponents of its own free will without requiring orders. The GM controls Pokemon under the effect of this feature. The target does not flee or retreat if injured while under the effects of this feature. Only one Pokemon may be under the effects of this feature at any given time. This feature may not be active while its user is currently using Dual Wielding. 
    
Resources					Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger, Authority Figure
     Weekly
     Target: Self
     Effect: You call in support from at least one Ranger in the area. This Ranger will go directly to you and meet you as soon as possible, and assist you with any pressing business, but will not leave the area or otherwise completely abandon their current task unless ordered otherwise by an authority above both of you. 
    
Safe Passage					Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Route.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your DEX and CHA modifiers. If the total exceeds 20, you can make it across the target route without any hostile encounters from any routine wild Pokemon for the day. 
    
Specialist Befriender		Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger, used Befriend on a Pokemon with the Capability you chose for this Feature.
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature
     Chose one of the following capabilities: Alluring, Amorphous, Chilled, Firestarter, Fountain, Freezer,      
     Gilled, Glow, Groundshaper, Guster, Heater, Icestep, Inflatable, Magnetic, Shrinkable, Sinker, 
     Sprouter, Threaded.
     Target: Any Route, Town, City, Mountain, etc.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier, if the total is higher then 17 a Pokemon with your 
chosen Capability appears nearby. Any attempt at attacking or capturing the Pokemon results in the Pokemon fleeing without fail. The Pokemon must still be made Helpful or Companion to use. You must take this Feature again for a different capability. 
    
Styler Master				Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger, Perfect Practice, DEX 18, CHA 18
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: An Owned Pokemon
     Effect:  Make a Restrain Check.  You may target the owned Pokemon with Befriend. Owned Pokemon will not attack their own trainer unless they are Loyalty 2 or lower. Pokemon of Loyalty 3 or higher will not attack allies of their trainer. Owned Pokemon are Helpful until having been returned by their trainer, or until they have attacked a valid target. Attempting to force a high loyalty Pokemon to attack their 
allies will negate the restrain. You do not learn the Pokemon’s Loyalty value upon restraining. 
    
Ward							Ranger Feature
     Prerequisites: Ranger
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You successfully restrain a wild Pokemon.
     Effect: The wild Pokemon flees without fail.  Roll 1d20 and add your DEX and CHA modifiers, if the total is higher then 20, the restrained Pokemon and any wild Pokemon of a lower level than the target who are its allies flee without fail. 

Coach


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ranger, 16 CHA

	Bonus: +1 CHA


Base Features

Faster						Coach Feature
     Daily - Every 4 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your active Pokemon.
     Effect: Your targeted Pokemon’s Speed related Capabilities are increased by X where X is your CHA modifier until the end of the encounter.  

Stronger						Coach Feature
     Daily - Every 4 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your active Pokemon.
     Effect: For one Round, or one minute out of combat, your targeted Pokemon’s Power Capability is increased by X where X is half your CHA modifier.


Coach Features

Better						Coach Feature
     Prerequisites: Coach, Smarter
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your active Pokemon, under the effect of Smarter.
     Effect: For one Round, your targeted Pokemon’s Special Attack or Special Defense is increased by one Combat Stage. You may use this Feature multiple times at once, but only to a maximum of 2 Combat Stages in each stat.

Harder						Coach Feature
     Prerequisites: Coach, Tougher
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your active Pokemon, under the effect of Tougher.
     Effect: For one Round, your targeted Pokemon’s Attack or Defense is increased by one Combat Stage. You may use this Feature multiple times at once, but only to a maximum of 2 Combat Stages in each stat.

Higher						Coach Feature
     Prerequisites: Coach, a Pokemon with a Jump Capability of 4 or higher
     Daily - Every 4 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your active Pokemon.
     Effect: For one Round, or one minute out of combat, your targeted Pokemon’s Jump Capability is increased by X where X is half your CHA modifier.

Makes Us Stronger			Coach Feature
     Prerequisites: Coach, 20 CHA
     Daily - Every 15 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your Pokemon who felled a Pokemon or trainer during the past 3 rounds of combat.
     Effect: For one Round, add half of your CHA modifier to your Pokemon’s highest stat. This Feature may grant temporary HP.

More Than Ever				Coach Feature
     Prerequisites: Coach, 5 Coach Features
     Daily
     Effect: For one Round, the Coach Features: Better, Harder and Quicker, may be used up to 3 times in one round on the same Pokemon instead of being limtied to 2 Combat Stages. For one Round, Coach Features that increase Capabilities double their bonuses.

Never Over					Coach Feature
     Prerequisites: Coach, Makes Us Stronger
     Static
     Target: One of your active Pokemon.
     Effect: If the Pokemon’s HP is lowered to 0 or less, it may still act and shift but may not use Moves. If they are lowered to -50% HP, they make a Death Saving Throw and this Feature’s effect is cancelled.







Quicker						Coach Feature
     Prerequisites: Coach
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your active Pokemon under the effect of Faster.
     Effect: For one Round, your targeted Pokemon’s Speed is increased by one Combat Stage. You may use this Feature multiple times at once, but only to a maximum of 2 Combat Stages per stat.

Smarter						Coach Feature
     Prerequisites: Coach, a Pokemon with an Intelligence capability of 5 or higher
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your active Pokemon.
     Effect: For one Round, or one minute out of combat, your targeted Pokemon may ignore the 
penalties for Rough or Icy Terrain, and may move through a space occupied by a hostile Pokemon or Trainers freely.

Tougher						Coach Feature
     Prerequisites: Coach, a Pokemon with a Power capability of 5 or higher
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your active Pokemon.
     Effect: For one Round, your targeted Pokemon may ignore any lowered Stats or Combat Stages from Status Effects.

Work It						Coach Feature
     Prerequisites: Coach
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your active Pokemon.
     Effect: For one Round, all your Pokemon’s Moves with a Damage Dice Roll gain the Push keyword, and Push any targets a number of meters equal to the Pokemon’s Power Capability if the Move uses 
Attack, or Intelligence Capability if the Move uses Special Attack.

Commander


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ranger, 18 CHA, 
	Authority Figure

	Bonus: +1 CHA


Base Features

Commander’s Demeanor			Commander Feature
     Static
     Effect: Your experiences under heavy stress and crises situations has made you a natural leader. Whenever you make a Charisma check, add +5 to your roll.

Encourage					Commander Feature
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An Allied Trainer
     Effect: If the target successfully deals damage to an enemy on their next turn and you dealt 
damage to that same enemy on your last turn, they deal additional damage equal to your Charisma modifier.


Commander Features

At My Signal					Commander Feature
     Prerequisites: Commander, 22 CHA
     Daily - every 8 levels you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An Allied Trainer or Pokemon
     Effect:  Use immediately after dealing damage to an enemy. If the target makes an accuracy roll on their next turn, they add half of your CHA modifier to their Accuracy Roll.  

Commander’s Rally			Commander Feature
     Prerequisites: Commander, 20 CHA
     Daily
     Effect: All allied trainers within sight or hearing range of you gain +3 to all of their modifiers for a number of rounds equal to your CHA modifier. This Feature may only be in effect once at any given time.

Herder						Commander Feature
     Prerequisites: Commander, Ranger, 20 DEX
     Static
     Effect: You may make two Restraint attempts as one Trainer Action. You must target two, adjacent Pokemon when using Herder.

Inspiring Presence			Commander Feature
     Prerequisites: Commander
     Daily - Every 15 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An Allied Trainer
     Effect: Use immediately after dealing damage to an enemy. The target gains Temporary HP equal to twice your CHA modifier until the end of the encounter.

Leader’s Guidance			Commander Feature
     Prerequisites: Commander
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An Allied Trainer
     Effect: Target allied Trainer may immediately perform any trainer action or feature that has a 
frequency of At-Will.

Master Befriender			Commander Feature
     Prerequisites: Commander, Ranger, Befriender taken 2 times
     Static
     Effect: You may give the Helpful title to two additional Pokemon. Upon taking this Feature you now can control up to 7 Helpful Pokemon. You may still have your Companion in addition to the 7 Helpful Pokemon you may Restrain.










Pull Through!			Commander Feature
     Prerequisites: Commander
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: An Ally makes a roll due to a status condition.
     Effect: The Triggering Ally gets a +X Bonus on any rolls made due to Paralysis, Sleep, Frozen, 
Confusion, or Infatuation that turn, where X is your CHA modifier.

Requested Assistance		Commander Feature
     Prerequisites: Commander, Ranger
     Daily -  Every 15 levels you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Any Route, Town, City, Mountain, etc.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier, if the total is higher then 13 you locate a Pokemon who has a Capability of your choice, if choosing a capability with a value, the value may not be higher than 6. If choosing a speed capability, it may not be any higher than 12. If the total is higher than 18, you may pick another capability that the Pokemon will have. Any attempt at attacking or capturing the Pokemon results in the Pokemon fleeing without fail. The Pokemon must still be made Helpful or Companion to use.

Stand Up!				Commander Feature
     Prerequisites: Commander, 6 Commander Features
     Daily 
     Trigger: An Ally Trainer with over 1HP is reduced to 0HP or lower
     Effect: That Ally’s HP is reduced to 1 instead. This ability may be used as intercept, and only once per encounter on a single target.

Tactician				Commander Feature
     Prerequisites: Commander, At My Signal!, Inspiring Presence, Leader’s Guidance
     Daily - Every 25 levels you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An Allied Trainer
     Effect: Choose two of Encourage, At My Signal!, Inspiring Presence, or Leader’s Guidance. The target gains the effects of both of the chosen features. Use of Tactician depletes a daily use of Tactician as well as each of the chosen features.

Detective 


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ranger, 18 CHA

	Bonus: +1 CHA


Base Features

Conspiracy Beater		Detective Feature
     Static
     Effect: When in an encounter or facing any criminal or criminal suspect, all of your Stat modifiers are raised by 1.

Intuition’s Arsenal		Detective Feature
     One Time Use Only - You gain one additional use of Intuition’s Arsenal per 15 levels gained.
     Effect: When you activate this Feature, choose and gain one of the following Abilities permanently: Forewarn, Frisk, Infiltrator, Insomnia, Inner Focus, Keen Eye, Pickpocket, Unaware, or Unnerve. 


Detective Features

Disguise					Detective Feature
     Prerequisites: Detective, Face Maker Kit (2,300)
     At-Will
     Effect: You can disguise yourself as other people and be unrecognizable to the naked eye of everyone around you. It takes 10 minutes to prepare a disguise.

Detective Training		Detective Feature
     Prerequisites: Detective, a Pokemon of Loyalty 3 or higher.
     One Time Use Only - after taking Detective Training, 
	you gain one additional use per 10 levels gained.
     Target: Your Pokemon or Companion with Loyalty 3 or higher.
     Effect: Mark your Pokemon as an “Investigator”.  Your Pokemon with Investigator gain +1 
Intelligence or have their Intelligence increased to 4, whichever is higher. Additionally, the target gains one of the following capabilities: Stealth, Tracker, or Mind Lock.

Intuition Training		Detective Feature
     Prerequisites: Detective, Detective Training
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your Pokemon marked as Investigator
     Effect: The target gains a Pokemon ability that you have gained through Intuition’s Arsenal, in 
addition to the abilities they already have. If the Pokemon already has the chosen ability, this feature has no effect. This effect ends when the Pokemon is recalled.

Evidence Search			Detective Feature
     Prerequisites: Detective
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A crime scene, suspect’s home or office, or any area 
	that may contain material relevant to your current situation or otherwise incriminating.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier to the roll. If you roll 20 or higher, you find a piece of evidence, if available, related to what you are looking for, even if its relevance is not immediately 
obvious.

Lie Detector				Detective Feature
     Prerequisites: Detective, 20 CHA
     At-Will
     Target: A person that you suspect may be willing to lie.
     Effect: When you declare the use of this feature, specify a statement made by the target and you will immediately know whether or not it is completely truthful. This feature may be used on recorded 
information. If the target is saying something that they believe is true, then they do not appear to be lying.
 
Master of Disguise		Detective Feature
     Prerequisites: Detective, Disguise, 20 CHA
     Static
     Effect: You can disguise yourself as other people, pokemon or even inanimate objects of your size and be unrecognizable as a fake to the eyes of everyone around you.  It takes 10 minutes to prepare a disguise.  You may pick two disguises to have on hand, and you may switch between these disguised as a Trainer Action. This Feature replaces Disguise. 


Partner’s Aid				Detective Feature
     Prerequisites: Detective, Detective Training
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon marked as “Investigator”.
     Effect: Using this feature gives up your Command Action for the round.  You command your 
Pokemon to aid you in your current actions, giving you a +3 Bonus to any rolls made when using a Detective Feature. If Conspiracy Beater is currently applicable, it may target any roll. Your Pokemon marked as “Investigator” must be able to act and nearby.

Smooth Talker				Detective Feature
     Prerequisites: Detective
     Static
     Effect: Whenever you make a Charisma check, or make a roll that requires you to add your CHA modifier, add 5 to your roll.

Stop Right There!			Detective Feature
     Prerequisites: Detective
     Daily
     Trigger: You are pursuing a fleeing target or in an encounter 
	with an enemy you have been searching for.
     Effect: Add half your CHA modifier to your DEX modifier for 5 minutes.

What’s That Over There		Detective Feature
     Prerequisites: Detective
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A person not in combat and not hostile to you, or unaware of your presence.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your CHA modifier. If you roll above the target’s INT or WIS stat, you are successfully able to distract them with a trick or a menial chore for a number of minutes equal to the difference between their chosen stat and your roll’s result. If they have more pressing business or are otherwise alerted, they will stop whatever it is they were doing earlier than normal, if not immediately.

Rider


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ranger, 2 Pokemon who have 
	served as a mount for a day each

	Bonus: +1 DEX


Base Features

Stick to It				Rider Feature	
     Static
     Effect: You automatically succeed on all checks to remain on your mount caused by attacks and status conditions. You can ride your mounts on their side, while hanging upside down from them, while standing on them or any other odd way of staying on your mount as if you are riding the mount as normal.

Battle Capable Riding	Rider Feature
     Daily - Every 5 Levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You are hit by an attack while riding a Pokemon.
     Effect: Your mount is hit by the attack instead of yourself. If you would have both been hit, your mount may take both sets of damage.


Rider Features

All-Terrain Mount			Rider Feature
     Prerequisites: Rider, a Pokemon with Stealth, Phasing, Groundshaper or Icestep
     Static
     Effect: While mounted, the target may ignore the effects of Rough Terrain and is treated as if it has the Icestep Capability.

Charge!						Rider Feature
     Prerequisites: Rider, 6 Rider Features, 26 DEX
     Daily - Every 25 Levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: If you are mounted, for the rest of the round, all attacks you make that deal Physical Damage have the Dash keyword, and do additional damage equal to your Mount’s relevant movement capability.

Just Going for a Ride		Rider Feature
     Prerequisites: Rider, Ranger
     Static
     Effect: When making a Wild appear through use of a Ranger Feature or any Advanced Feature, you may choose to specify that the Wild is capable of being ridden.

Lightriding					Rider Feature
     Prerequisites: Rider
     Static
     Effect: While you are mounted, if you are the only person on your mount, your mount does not 
suffer the usual penalties to Movement Capabilities and Speed Combat Stages.  Additionally, while you are mounted, your mount may carry one more person than it usually could regardless of its Power score or body shape.

Mental Crop					Rider Feature
     Prerequisites: Rider, a Pokemon with Overland Speed 8 or higher Capabilities
     Static
     Effect: While you are mounted, your mount gains a +X Bonus to their Movement Capabilities, and a +1 Bonus to its Jump Capability.  X is equal to your DEX modifier. 

Mobility						Rider Feature
     Prerequisites: Rider
     Static
     Effect: Instead of using your DEX Stat to determine your Initiative during trainer turns, you may choose to use your mount’s Speed Stat. You still act during trainer turns as normal.













Mounted Quick Switch			Rider Feature
     Prerequisites: Rider, Odd Riding
     Static
     Effect: You can switch out Pokemon you are mounted on to another Pokemon from your Poke Balls without dismounting, even if your mount is in motion. You may even switch the type of mount while it is moving.

Pure Speed					Rider Feature
     Prerequisites: Rider, a Pokemon with 25 Speed or higher
     Static
     Effect: Your mount, that you are currently riding, has its Speed stat raised by two Combat Stages.

Qualified Ride				Rider Feature
     Prerequisites: Rider
     Daily - Every 5 Levels gained, you may use this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: You may mount a willing Pokemon as a Free Action during your turn, and doing so does not forfeit the Pokemon’s Shift Action or Move Action that round.

Watch and Learn				Rider Feature
     Prerequisites: Rider, 5 Rider Features
     At-Will
     Target: An allied trainer who is mounted. You may not target a Rider.
     Effect: The target may benefit from up to two Rider Features you have with Static Frequencies while within 3 meters of you. Only one ally may benefit from Watch and Learn at a time.  These benefits last until the ally is no longer in range, is no longer mounted, or receives different benefits.

Signer

	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ranger, Allied with a 
	Legendary Pokemon

	Bonus: +1 DEX


Base Features

Guardian Sign			Signer Feature
     Daily - Every 2 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You take damage from a Move.
     Effect: When taking damage, you are considered the same type as whichever Patron’s Crest you are using.

Healing Sign				Signer Feature
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Roll 2d20 and add your DEX modifier. The target heals that many Hit Points.

	Mechanic: Whenever you are allied with a Legendary Pokemon, you gain its Crest. Whenever you use a Signer Feature, choose a Crest belonging to one of the Legendary Pokemon you have allied with. Depending on which Pokemon it is, the effects of the other Signer Features may change. When referring to a Legendary Pokemon related to a Crest, Features refer to the Legendary Pokemon as Patrons. When using a Crest, you must have a flat circle, surface, at least 1-meter diameter large in order to summon the astral form of the allied Pokemon to you. Crests do not inform you of any 
Patrons’ Moves, or Stats. If any Patrons are reduced to less than 25% of their HP, Signers who are 
allied with their Patrons will know, if they are thinking about their Patron.



Signer Features

Courage Sign					Signer Feature
     Prerequisites: Signer, a Companion who has been with you for at least 2 weeks
     Daily
     Target: A Helpful Pokemon who is about to leave.
     Effect: The target may perform one additional At-Will Frequency Move immediately.

Divine Sign					Signer Feature
     Prerequisites: Signer, a Companion who has been with you for at least 2 weeks
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Companion who has been with you for at least 2 weeks
     Effect: Choose one of your Crests. The Companion uses a Move that the Patron knows, which is not a Signature Move, as chosen by your GM (The GM should choose an appropriate Move for the situation). This counts as Issuing a Command. This may only be used once per turn.

God Sign						Signer Feature
     Prerequisites: Signer, Divine Sign, 18 DEX
     Daily 
     Target: Companion who has been with you for at least 1 month
     Effect: Choose one of your Crests. The Companion uses a Signature Move, chosen by your GM, which the Patron knows. A Signature Move being a Move which is known almost exclusively by that Patron. This counts as Issuing a Command.

Grand Sign					Signer Feature
     Prerequisites: Signer
     Daily - Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Helpful Pokemon.
     Effect: Add your CHA modifier and your DEX modifier together. Add that total to the Helpful 
Pokemon’s next damage-dealing Move. This may only be used once per turn.

Restoring Sign				Signer Feature
     Prerequisites: Signer, 18 DEX
     Daily 
     Target: Pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Roll 3d20 and add three times your DEX modifier . The target heals that many Hit Points.

Revealing Sign				Signer Feature
     Prerequisites: Signer
     Daily - Every 3 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You successfully Restrain a Pokemon.
     Effect: The Restrained “Helpful” Pokemon has four Moves revealed to you by your GM that the Restrained Pokemon knows. If the Pokemon knows less than four Moves, each Move is revealed.









Righteous Sign				Signer Feature
     Prerequisites: Signer, two or more Patrons
     Daily     
     Target: Self.
     Effect: All allies with line of sight to you may pick one Stat, other than HP, and raise its Combat Stage twice.

Smite Sign					Signer Feature
     Prerequisites: Signer
     Static
     Effect: While attacking with a Trainer Attack, you may activate a Crest. When activated, choose one of the Patron’s Elemental Types and treat your attack as that Elemental Type. Apply Weaknesses, 
Resistances and Immunities. 

Summoning Sign				Signer Feature
     Prerequisites: Signer, 8 Signer Features
     Weekly
     Target: Adjacent empty space. 
     Effect: Choose a Crest, you may not use your Styler for the remainder of the encounter. Next to you a miniature, astral form of your Patron appears. It is medium sized. It has HP equal to your DEX stat multiplied by 5. It is identical to the Legendary in every other way including Capabilities, Abilities and Moves. Your GM will determine its stats. It is considered Helpful until it performs 10 tasks that would usually dismiss other Helpful Pokemon. If the astral Patron is attacked it does not counts as something that would otherwise dismiss a Helpful Pokemon for the count of 10 tasks before the astral Patron 
disappears. 

Swift Sign					Signer Feature
     Prerequisites: Signer, a Companion who has been with you for at least 2 weeks
     Daily 
     Target: Helpful Pokemon.
     Effect: You may immediately issue a command to the target, even if you have commanded another Pokemon during that round of an encounter. The Helpful Pokemon is dismissed as usual afterwards.

Special Operations


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ranger, CHA 16, DEX 18, 
	Special Ops. Gear,
 	Special Ops. Styler, and 
	Upgrade Kit (2,000)

	Bonus: +1 DEX


Base Features
 
Scanner				Special Ops. Feature
     Static
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: You can see a percentage when you look at a Pokemon that represents how much of its total HP it has remaining.

Specialists Styler	Special Ops. Feature
     Static
     Target: The Styler you own.
     Effect: You upgrade your Styler to your own personal specifications, granting it 30 maximum 
energy, and adding four slots that allow for future upgrades to be added on. Each upgrade takes up one slot and is powered by the Styler. You may spend a Trainer Action to change one upgrade to a different upgrade.

	Mechanic: Spec Ops Stylers make use of an internal power system to operate their upgrades and attachments. This energy does not recharge at the end of the day, instead it needs to be powered by an outside source. A successful use of the Zapper Capability charges the Styler to full, the Styler can also be recharged at any ranger station, or building with appropriate adapters and power 
supply. The Special Operations Member also has many supplies they must use to do their job well. These supplies are given by the organization the Ranger belongs to, but the GM may force the player to purchase these items on their own, create them through their own means such as an Engineer, buy them from shady supplies, or gain them as rewards. The numbers in the features prerequisites are recommended costs if the player were to purchase them on their own.


Special Operations Features
   
Coiled Styler Upgrade		Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, Cable and Compact Two-Way Motor (750)
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers
     Effect: Use a ranged instance of the Move Wrap up to a range of 4 meters. Use your DEX modifier as your ATK stat. 
Without the motor, Wrap has a range of 5 meters. 40 meters of cable located somewhere on your person is fed through the upgrade, with the options of a grappling hook, magnetic weight, and adhesive solution. The motor can pull your weight and up to an additional 200 pounds and extends Wrap’s range to 10 meters. The motor takes up an additional upgrade slot, but you may use the upgrade without it. Each use of the move Wrap uses 4 points of energy from your Styler, and every 10 
minutes spent with the motor running, uses 2 point of energy. You may only have this upgrade on a Specialists Styler.
   
Crowd Control Upgrade		Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, Crowd Control Kit (500)
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or trainers.
     Effect: Use the move Sleep Powder or Smokescreen with a maximum range of 5 meters. Using this feature spends 4 point of energy from your Styler. Using this feature spends 4 point of energy from your Styler.
   
Crowd Suppression Upgrade	Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, Crowd Control Upgrade, Crowd Suppression Addon (750)
     Daily - Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or trainers.
     Effect: Use the move Spider Web or Stun Spore with a maximum range of 4 meters. This add-on fits onto the Crowd 
Control launcher and does not use an upgrade slot. Using this feature spends 5 point of energy from your Styler.

   
Elemental Stone Upgrade		Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, Elemental Stone Catalyst Kit (2000)
     Static
     Effect: You insert an evolutionary stone into the upgrade to draw out various powers. Once inserted, these stones lose the potency to evolve a Pokemon, but can continued to be used in this upgrade. You may only use one stone at a time, and it takes five rounds to change effects after using a train action to change stones. Using this feature spends 5 points of energy every day. You may only have this upgrade on a Specialists Styler.
		     Gain the capabilities for appropriate stone which is used:
		Stone 			Capability 		
		Dawn Stone 		Glow 							
		Dusk Stone 		Mind Lock						
		Fire Stone 		Firestarter (No manipulation)			 
		Leaf Stone 		Juicer 			
		Moon Stone 		Stealth 				
		Shiny Stone 		Glow 							
		Sun Stone 		lluring 						
		Thunder Stone		Adds an additional 10 points to Styler maximum energy 
		Water Stone 		Fountain	 					

Elemental Stone Upgrade +	Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, Elemental Stone Upgrade, Resonance Cascade Jumpstarter Kit (4000)
     Daily - Every 25 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or Trainers
     Effect: This kit fits on top of the Elemental Stone Upgrade in addition to two other slots. You use the move Hyper Beam, which takes a custom type depending on which stone you have inserted into the Elemental Stone Upgrade. Using Hyper Beam exhausts the trainer for his next action, and you must wait an additional three rounds before using any of the Stylers upgrades. Using this feature spends 15 point of energy from your Styler. You may only have this upgrade on a Specialists Styler.
		The types used for the hyper beam are:
	Stone 			Type 				Stone 		Type 		
	Fire Stone		Fire 				Sun Stone 	Flying 		
	Water Stone		Water 				Shiny Stone 	Fighting 
	Thunder Stone 		Electric 				Dusk Stone 	Ghost 	 
	Leaf Stone 		Grass 				Dawn Stone 	Psychic 	
	Moon Stone 		Rock 				None 		Normal 	
   
Endure					Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, 20 DEX, Protective Armor
     Daily
     Target: Self.
     Effect: Use the Move Endure.

Lock-On Upgrade			Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, Lock-On Kit (1250)
     At-Will
     Target: Pokemon or trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Lock-On. You receive the targets maximum HP and current HP through your scanner. Using this feature spends 2 point of energy from your Styler. 

Protective Armor			Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, Light Personal Armor (1000)
     Static
     Effect: When taking damage from attacks, take 10 less damage. This Armor can be hidden under most jackets and multi-layer clothing. 
   
Perfect Armor			Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, Full Personal Armor (2500), Protective Armor
     Static
     Effect: When taking damage from attacks, take 25 less damage. This armor cannot be hidden except by some extreme methods, and cannot be used in combination with Protective Armor. You may only factor in one other source of damage reduction along with Perfect Armor.
   
Protect					Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, Endure
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You are hit by a Move.
     Effect: Use the Move Protect.
   
Rebreather				Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member, Rebreather Kit (500)
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Self
     Effect: Use the water rebreather, allowing you to breathe underwater for a maximum of 45 minutes per use. After the rebreather is used to its full time, it must be cleaned and dried, rendering it unable to be used for three hours.
   
Take Down				Special Ops. Feature
     Prerequisites: Spec. Ops. Member
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon or trainers.
     Effect: Use the Move Take Down. Add your DEX modifier as your ATK stat. If you have Perfect 
Armor, you do not take recoil from Take Down.

Survivalist


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Ranger, 17 DEX, 
	Spent a total of 7 days away 
	from civilization

	Bonus: +1 DEX


Base Features


Food Scavenger			Survivalist Feature
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Anywhere on a Route.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your DEX modifier. If the total exceeds 12, you find enough food and water for a whole day for up to seven humans and/or Pokemon.

Internalized Senses		Survivalist Feature
     Static
     Effect: At anytime you can discern the direction you are facing. You know a complete forecast of the day’s natural weather. You know a rough estimate of the time of day, to the nearest quarter of an hour.


Survivalist Features

Acid Rain				Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist
     Daily
     Target: A Pokemon using a Move with the Weather keyword.
     Effect: When the Pokemon uses a Move with the Weather keyword, instead of replacing a Weather 
effect already on the field, both Weather effects simultaneously exist on the field. If a new Weather effect is placed on the field after the two that are out, both are replaced by the third.

Bring Him Down!			Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You declare an Arms attack with a ranged weapon.
     Effect: On a successful hit, you paralyze the target. If you roll higher than 15 on the AC, this attack Flinches the target as well.

Forecast					Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist, Weather Report
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Any Route, Town, City, Mountain, etc.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your DEX modifier, if the total is higher then 18 you locate a Pokemon who can perform one of the following moves of your choice: Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Hail, Sandstorm or 
Defog. Any attempt at attacking or capturing the Pokemon results in the Pokemon fleeing without fail. The Pokemon must still be made Helpful or Companion to use.

Huntsman					Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist, Level 10, Weapon of Choice in a ranged weapon.
     Static
     Effect: Targets of your ranged arms attacks gain no speed evasion bonus, gain no bonuses from Moves or effects that say ‘you must roll +X during Accuracy Checks,’ and no evasion bonuses from terrain or weather. In addition, as long as you are not a Martial Artist, or an Advanced Class with a Martial Artist preprequisite, your ranged arms attacks deal additional damage and range, equal to half your Dexterity. 

Master Gyver				Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist, Swiss Army Knife ( 50 )
     At-Will
     Target: Wood, Bone, Plastic, and any other workable material with a knife
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your DEX and CHA modifiers, if the total is higher than 22, you can create any non-electronic tool/gadget/etc. within reason. You are a master of ingenuity and can create one time use contraptions to solve your various problems. You can also create partially hidden shelter from the surrounding area large enough for 5 people and/or Pokemon, which will last X days, X being your DEX modifier. More than 2 shelters close together become easy to see by any passing Pokemon or human.

Pacifism					Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist, DEX 16
     Daily - Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Restrain Roll
     Effect: If you successfully restrain the Pokemon, you may not use the Helpful Pokemon to attack 
anything, but you have -15 added to your restrain roll.


Surviving the Mountains		Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist, DEX 22, Survived an encounter underground or 
	in the mountains, Own a Rock or Steel type Pokemon.
     Daily - Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You hit with a Trainer Attack that is unmodified 
	by a Feature that would give it an Elemental Type.
     Effect: Your Trainer Attack is Super Effective against Rock and Steel Type Pokemon. You may only take two Surviving the X, Features. (Mountains, Forests, Skies, Swamps) This may only be used once per turn.

Surviving the Forests		Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist, DEX 22, Survived a trip through a significant forest, 
	Own a Grass or Ground type Pokemon.
     Daily - Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You hit with a Trainer Attack that is unmodified 
	by a Feature that would give it an Elemental Type.
     Effect: Your Trainer Attack is Super Effective against Grass and Ground Type Pokemon. You may only take two Surviving the X, Features. (Mountains, Forests, Skies, Swamps)  This may only be used once per turn.

Surviving the Skies			Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist, DEX 22, Survived an attack by an 
	encounter of Flying Types, or Bug Types, Own a Bug or Flying type Pokemon.
     Daily - Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You hit with a Trainer Attack that is unmodified 
	by a Feature that would give it an Elemental Type.
     Effect: Your Trainer Attack is Super Effective against Bug and Flying Type Pokemon. You may only take two Surviving the X, Features. (Mountains, Forests, Skies, Swamps) This may only be used once per turn.

Surviving the Swamps			Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist, DEX 22, 
	Survived a trip by an ocean or swamp, Own a Poison or Water type Pokemon.
     Daily - Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You hit with a Trainer Attack that is unmodified 
	by a Feature that would give it an Elemental Type.
     Effect: Your Trainer Attack is Super Effective against Poison and Water Type Pokemon. You may only take two Surviving the X, Features. (Mountains, Forests, Skies, Swamps)  This may only be used once per turn.

Watch The Sky				Survivalist Feature
     Prerequisites: Survivalist
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: There is a weather in effect.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your DEX modifier, if the total is higher than 10 you temporarily gain the Overcoat Pokemon Ability. If the result is higher than 16, you and all your Pokemon, may temporarily gain the Overcoat Pokemon Ability. If the result is higher than 22, you, all your Pokemon, your allies and their Pokemon, may temporarily gain the Overcoat Pokemon Ability. If the weather changes, or Acid Rain is used, the protection fails and must be reapplied as a trainer action, with no additional roll needed during that encounter. Overcoat may need to temporarily replace a Pokemon’s Ability. 


Researcher


	Class Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	13 INT, 13 WIS
	
	Bonuses: +1 INT +1 WIS
	Penalties: -2 STR


Base Features


Frantic Research			Researcher Feature
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Any pokemon.
     Effect: Roll d20 and add your INT and WIS modifiers to the roll. If you roll higher then 15, you learn what level the pokemon is. If you roll higher then 20, you identify how much HP the target 
currently has.

Walking Encyclopedia		Researcher Feature
     Static
     Target: Anything related to knowledge you are allowed to look up.
     Effect: You know pokemon data, relating to pokemon in your pokedex, about move sets, type, type advantage, evolution methods, abilities, height, weight, and location. You have access to all 
information a pokedex would grant, immediately.


Researcher Features

Did The Homework 		Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher, 16 INT
     Daily
     Target: Location, Trainer, Pokemon, Object
     Effect: Spend an hour doing research about the target. Every 12 levels gained, you may research an additional target during this hour. The GM gives you X Insight Points for the target that last until the end of the day, where X is half of your INT modifier. While in the vicinity of the target and taking actions related to that target for the rest of the day, you spend an Insight Point once per round as a free action to treat either your WIS or INT mod as 3 higher for the duration of that round. When you spend an Insight Point, your GM gives you a fact about the target that aids in your current action.

Field Commander			Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher, 17 INT or 17 WIS
     Static
     Target: Your ally’s pokemon.
     Effect: You may issue commands to pokemon who has not already acted on a round of an encounter. There must be understood consent from the trainer unless they are unconscious. Pokemon may only act once per round of an encounter. You still may only issue one command per round unless you have Dual Wielding.

Frantic Research +		Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher, 16 WIS, 16 INT
     Daily – Every 3 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Any pokemon.
     Effect: Roll d20 and add your INT and WIS modifiers to the roll. If you roll higher then 15, you learn what level the pokemon is and at least 6 of its attacks that a standard one of its species would not 
naturally have at its level. If it has fewer than 6 attacks meeting this criterion, you learn all of them. If you roll higher then 20, you identify how much HP the target currently has. This Feature replaces Frantic Research.

Game Plan				Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher, 16 INT
     Daily – Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: One allied trainer or pokemon.
     Effect: Shift the target up to X meters where X is your INT modifier or your WIS modifier. 

Game Plan +				Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher, Game Plan
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Your allies and their pokemon.
     Effect: Shift all allies and their pokemon up to X meters where X is your INT modifier or your WIS modifier. Game Plan + does not replace Game Plan.









Read the Manual			Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher
     At-Will
     Target: An item.
     Effect: You know the function of any machine. Additionally, you know the function of the item if it is a standard item with an effect given in the Player Handbook. You know of any defects that might change the way the item normally functions. 

Repel Crafting			Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher
     At-Will
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create a Repel (200). Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.

Strategic Targeting		Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Allied pokemon.
     Effect: Add half your WIS modifier to the target’s accuracy roll when they make an attack this turn. 

Tactical Response		Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher, Field Commander
     Daily
     Target: Your Pokemon
     Effect: Choose one Move of any kind and one No Damage - Self Move known by the target. For the rest of the day when your targeted pokemon is active and a foe uses the first Move chosen, it may 
immediately use the chosen No Damage - Self Move as an interrupt one time. This does not consume your command for the turn.  

Trait Theory				Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher
     At-Will – One attempt per target, 2 times per encounter
     Target: Any pokemon.
     Effect: Roll d20 and add your INT and WIS modifiers to the roll. If you roll higher then 10, you identify what Nature the pokemon has. If you roll higher than 15, you also identify what Abilities the pokemon has.

Trait Theory +			Researcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Researcher, Trait Theory, 18 WIS
     At-Will – One attempt per target, 2 times per encounter
     Target: Any pokemon.
     Effect: Roll d20 and add your INT and WIS modifiers to the roll. If you roll higher then 10, you identify what Nature the pokemon has. If you roll higher than 15, you also identify what Abilities the pokemon has. If the target is Wild and you rolled higher then 20, you may pick the target’s Nature. This Feature Replaces Trait Theory.

Cryptozoologist


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Researcher, Encountered 
	at Least 2 Legendary Pokemon

	Bonus: +1 WIS


Cryptozoologist Features

Beckon 				Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Cryptozoologist, used Praise on at least one Legendary
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Legendary Pokemon’s habitat of a Legendary you’ve met.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 20, a Legendary pokemon will 
appear. It will not necessarily appear near you, but you will be able to see it, or evidence of its presence.

Blessing				Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Cryptozoologist, allied with a Legendary Pokemon
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier doubled. The target recovers HP equal to the total rolled. You may not use Blessing if you are no longer allied with any Legendary Pokemon.

Channel Divinity		Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Cryptozoologist, Linked to a Legendary Pokemon
     Weekly - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per week.
     Target: A loyal pokemon.
     Effect: The target may perform a Move that is known by a Legendary Pokemon you are Linked to. This counts as Issuing a Command. This may only be used once per turn.

God Speak			Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor, Linguist, allied with a Legendary Pokemon
     Static
     Effect: You can speak to and understand all Legendary Pokemon.

Guardian Link		Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Cryptozoologist, used Praise on at least one Legendary
     Daily
     Target: A Legendary Pokemon.
     Effect: You may only target Legendary Pokemon with Guardian Link if you are allied with them. The
Legendary becomes Linked. While a Linked Legendary is in danger, regardless of where you are in the world, you will know. This greatly increases your GM’s points towards allying the target.

Legendary Blessing	Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Cryptozoologist, Blessing, 18 WIS
     Daily
     Target: A pokemon or Trainer.
     Effect: Roll 2d20 and add your WIS modifier tripled. The target recovers HP equal to the total rolled. You may not use Legendary Blessing if you are no longer allied with any Legendary Pokemon.











Link Summon				Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Cryptozoologist, Linked to a Legendary Pokemon
     Monthly - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per Month.
     Target: A Linked Legendary, disregarding any line of sight.
     Effect: You may summon the allied, Linked Legendary Pokemon. You ignore how often you’ve 
summoned it in the past, it will appear.

Miracle					Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Cryptozoologist, allied with a Legendary Pokemon
     Weekly - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per week.
     Trigger: Allied Trainer or Allied Pokemon fails a Death Savings Throw.
     Effect: The target may re-roll that Death Savings throw and subtract 5 from their roll if you target a trainer or subtract 25 if you target a pokemon.

Morale Blessing			Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Cryptozoologist, Field Commander, allied with a Legendary Pokemon
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Allied pokemon.
     Effect: Pick either Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense or Speed and raise the chosen stat of each of your ally’s pokemon’s within X meters of you by 1 Combat Stage until the end of the encounter. X is your WIS modifier.

Omen						Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Cryptozoologist, 17 WIS
     At-Will
     Target: Anywhere on a route.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 10, you learn of the last time a 
Legendary pokemon has been around the area.

Soul Searching			Cryptozoologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Cryptozoologist, 16 WIS, Linked to a Legendary Pokemon
     Daily
     Target: A Linked Legendary, disregarding any line of sight.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 13, you are pointed in the direction of the target. If the total exceeds 17, you learn of the distance between the Linked Legendary and 
yourself.

Dream Doctor


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Researcher, 17 WIS, 
	Portable Dream Machine (5000), 
	a Pokemon with Dream Smoke 

	Bonus: +1  WIS


Base Features


Portable Dream Machine	Dream Doctor Feature
     Static
     Effect: You have a Dream Machine, comparable in size to a laptop. When used on a sleeping pokemon, this machine will allow you to look into their dreams through a viewing window for up to 8 hours, after which, the pokemon will wake up. During this time, the Pokemon is considered to be in the Dream World. If the pokemon is disturbed during its dream, it must roll a normal sleep check as if it was Asleep. Dreams will show any subconscious desires or wishes the pokemon has, although the dream’s true meaning may be obscure. A pokemon may only be observed by the Dream Machine once per three days.

Dream Smoke Materializer	Dream Doctor Feature
     At-Will - As long as an owned Pokemon with Dream Smoke is active.
     Target: A Pokemon who has been asleep in the Dream World for 4 hours.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 plus your WIS modifier. On a roll of 18 or above, the pokemon will find an item in their dream world and hold onto it, and then immediately wake up. The pokemon will awake holding the item they dreamed about. Pokemon can only dream about a specific item if they have held it before. The dreamt item is chosen by the GM.



Dream Doctor Features

Dream Training Montage		Dream Doctor Feature
     Prerequisites: Dream Doctor, WIS 18
     Daily
     Target: A Pokemon who has been asleep in the Dream World for 7 hours.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. On a result of 20 or better, you may take X amount of points from one of the pokemon’s base stats and apply it to a different base stat. X is equal to your WIS modifier halved. If this changes the Base Relation, you must place points where appropriate while 
leveling in order to right the Base Relation as soon as possible. Dream Training Montage may not target a Pokemon who has been successfully targeted by Dream Training Montage before.

Lucid Dreamers				Dream Doctor Feature
     Prerequisites: Dream Doctor
     Static
     Effect: Add 3 to any check while using a Feature on a Pokemon in the Dream World.

Naptime						Dream Doctor Feature
     Prerequisites: Dream Doctor, one pokemon has remained in the dream world for 8 full hours.
     Static
     Target: Dreaming Pokemon in the Dream Machine.
     Effect: The amount of time required for features requiring a specific amount of time asleep is reduced by 1/4th, rounding up.

Naptime +					Dream Doctor Feature
     Prerequisites: Dream Doctor, Naptime
     Static
     Target: Dreaming Pokemon In the Dream machine.
     Effect: The amount of time required for features requiring a specific amount of time asleep is reduced by 1/3rd, rounding up. This feature replaces Naptime.

Pokewalker					Dream Doctor Feature
     Prerequisites: Dream Doctor, True Ability, Dream Training Montage (1500)
     Static
     Target: A pokemon in the Dream World.
     Effect: At any time a Pokemon is in the Dream World, you may place your Pokewalker, an item about the same size as a pedometer, into a port on the Dream Machine. You may place the Pokemon’s 
subconscious dream into the Pokewalker and immediately return a Pokemon to its Poke Ball. While a Pokemon’s subconscious is in the Pokewalker, it gains 500 experience points per 24 hours it remains in the Pokewalker with you and its Poke Ball. These experience points are given to the Pokemon when they are sent out of their Poke Ball, next to your Dream Machine with the Pokewalker in its Dream Machine port. You may target the subconscious of the Pokemon in the Pokewalker with Dream Doctor Features within the eight hours of your putting a Pokemon into the Pokewalker. If a Pokemon whose 
subconscious is in the Pokewalker is sent out of its Poke Ball without the Pokewalker and Dream 
Machine ready, the subconscious disappears from the Pokewalker and no experience points are 
rewarded to the Pokemon.







Psychotherapy			Dream Doctor Feature
     Prerequisites: Dream Doctor, Subtle Suggestion, WIS 16
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Dreaming Pokemon in the Dream Machine.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 plus WIS modifier. IF the total exceeds 19, you can understand why a pokemon is upset, what the source of the unhappiness is, and what needs to be done in the real world to fix it. You may ask questions to the sleeping Pokemon and the Dream Machine will accurately reveal answers to the best of the pokemon’s ability.

Subtle Suggestion		Dream Doctor Feature
     Prerequisites: Dream Doctor, successfully used Dream Smoke Materializer 5 times
     Daily
     Target: Dreaming Pokemon while using Dream Smoke Materializer.
     Effect: Declare the name of an item the Dreaming pokemon has seen and used before, roll 1d20 and add WIS modifier. On a result of 18 or better, the pokemon will dream about that item and it will 
materialize if the Dream Smoke Materializer is successful.

Temporary Ability		Dream Doctor Feature
     Prerequisites: Dream Doctor, True Ability
     Daily
     Target: A Pokemon who has been in the Dream World in the past week.
     Effect: Randomly choose an Ability the target has, the target loses that Ability for 1 hour. Randomly assign an Ability from the target’s Ability list, the target gains that Ability for 1 hour. The Randomly assigned Ability can potentially grant the same Ability that the Pokemon just lost for 1 hour, changing nothing.

Total Recall				Dream Doctor Feature
     Prerequisites: Dream Doctor, True Ability
     Static
     Effect: Ignore the lines “A pokemon may not have more than two Abilities after using True Ability. If the targeted Pokemon already has two Abilities when using True Ability, on a successful roll, replace one of the Abilities,” while using True Ability. This means that a Pokemon can have 3 Abilities after using True ability successfully.

True Ability				Dream Doctor Feature
     Prerequisites: Dream Doctor, WIS 18
     Daily
     Target: A Pokemon who has been asleep in the Dream World for 8 hours.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 plus your WIS modifier. On a result of 18 or better, assign an additional Ability to the Pokemon from the Pokemon’s Basic Abilities. On a result of 21 or better, assign any additional Ability to the Pokemon from the Pokemon’s High Abilities. A pokemon may not have more than two Abilities after using True Ability. If the targeted Pokemon already has two Abilities when using True Ability, on a 
successful roll, replace one of the Abilities. True Ability may not target a Pokemon who has been 
successfully targeted by True Ability before.

Petrologist


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Researcher, 18 INT, 
	Trusty Shovel and 
	Excavation Kit (1250)

	Bonus: +1 INT


Base Features


Digging for the Past		Petrologist Feature
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Anywhere on a Route.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If you roll higher than 20, you either find clues to fossils that are nearby or evidence of the areas history. If you roll higher than 28 you choose to find either a piece of the areas history or a fossil, both are chosen by your GM after you specify. For every use of the feature that exceeds 20 but not 28, add 5 to the roll during the next use of the feature on the same route. You may expend a use of the feature without rolling to add 3 to the roll. This feature requires thirty minutes of time while you search. 

Stone Search				Petrologist Feature
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Anywhere on a Route.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If you roll higher than 22, you find an Evolutionary stone chosen by your GM. This feature requires thirty minutes of time while you search. 

	Mechanics: See the Fossil Reanimation Rules determining how Fossils are re-animated.


Petrologist Features
     
Adventuring Archeologist		Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist
     Static
     Effect: You have begun to dabble in exploring ruins as well as caves. You know your regions history at a college level. You are able to sell or donate any pieces of history you find while Digging for the Past for X, where X is 1d20+INT mod times 30. 
     
Call Me Hori Taizo			Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Anywhere on a Route.
     Effect: Over the course of five minutes you dig a 5 meter wide and 2 meter tall pit. The pit trap is covered by camouflage that Pokemon or Trainers can’t distinguish from the surroundings. You can either choose to activate the trap from nearby or to have it activate when 100 pounds of pressure is put onto the camouflage. 
     
How to Ruin a Gneiss Day		Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist, Call Me Hori Taizo
     Daily - Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Anywhere on a Route.
     Effect: You place a trip-line 5 meters wide on the ground. Anyone walking through this trip-line 
activates a Rock Slide Move from the direction that you specify when placing the trap. Use your INT modifier for ATK. You roll the AC on the rock slide as normal. 
     
Elemental Trapping			Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist, Call me Hori Taizo
     Daily
     Target: A pit trap you have dug
     Effect: You place an Evolution Stone into the Pit Trap. When the trap is activated everyone inside is hit with 2d12+21+INT modifier damage that is the same type as the Evolution Stone.  If the stone has been energized with Stone Energizer, the damage is instead 4d12+17+INT modifier. Fire Stones deal Fire Type Damage, Leaf Stones do Grass, Thunder Stone do Electric, Water Stones do Water, and Stones created through Stone Polishing do damage of their assigned type. The Stone is destroyed after use. 
     
Flour Flourish				Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist, Bags of white flour
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Anywhere on a Route.
     Effect: You plant a small trap on the ground along with a 4 meter wide tripwire. When a Pokemon or Trainer passes through the tripwire, the flour is released in a 2 meter blast. Any hit targets need to roll 2 higher during AC checks until the end of combat, and lose resistances to fire until the first time they are hit with a fire or water attack.  
     
Movie Magic Quicksand		Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist, Flour Flourish
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A flour trap you have dug
     Effect: Instead of being on the ground, the trap is now a 4 meter wide pit filled with a mixture of silt, water, and flour. Trainers and Pokemon falling into the pit are trapped for 2d4+1 rounds. Pokemon with a surface speed or burrow speed of 5 or more instead act as if it is rough terrain. 




Reanimator					Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist, My First Reanimation Set(3000)
     Daily
     Target: A fossil being reanimated
     Effect: When you make a check to Reanimate a fossilized Pokemon add 3 to the roll. Reanimators can reanimate fossils anywhere with a steady power supply with their reanimation kit and do not need to visit a specialized lab. 

Slated for Renovation		Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist, (T)echnically (N)ot (T)actful Kit (2000)
     Daily - Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Any underground cave.
     Effect: While underground you set off a controlled explosion that opens up new caverns. You may set off the explosion from up to 30 meters away. The explosion does not damage anyone inside the cavern it is being set off in, but an effect may. Roll 1d10 to determine additional effects from the detonation.
     1: Cave in - Everyone in the cavern is automatically hit with the move Rock Tomb.
     2: Natural Deterrent - The cave network is partially blocked off by the appropriate natural event, 
	underground spring, sand cave in, lava, or Pokemon interaction.
     3: Wanton Destruction - Any items, fossils, or Pokemon are destroyed or scared off from the entire cave network.
     4-9: Successful demolition
     10: Discovery! - You find a buried site, details are left up to your GM.

Spelunking is the Schist		Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist, Visited 3 separate cave networks
     Static
     Effect: While underground you know if there are other viable exits to the surface or geologically 
unstable areas. You may also find areas that grant a +3 bonus to your Digging for the Past and Stone Search Feature rolls. 

Stone Energizer				Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist, Found three evolution stones through Stone Search
     Weekly - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per week.
     Target: Evolution Stone
     Effect: The stone gains a second use before being destroyed. You may not use Stone Energizer on the same stone twice. 

Stone Polish					Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist, Stone Energizer
     One Time Use - For every 8 levels gained, you may perform this feature an additional time.
     Target: An ordinary rock.
     Effect: You may turn that stone into an Evolution Stone. Choose one of the eighteen elemental types. When you touch a Pokemon with an Evolution Stone that matches one of their Elemental Types will forcefully evolve them if they meet the evolution level requirement but has not yet evolved. 

The Good Doctor				Petrologist Feature
     Prerequisites: Petrologist, Reanimator
     Weekly
     Target: A Pokemon deceased within the last 24 hours.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If you roll higher than 25 you create an artificial fossil from the corpse of the Pokemon. This fossil acts as a normal fossil. You may not target Legendary 
Pokemon with this feature.

Photographer


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Researcher, 16 WIS, 
	Camera (2000)

	Bonus: +1 WIS


Base Features


Snapshot				Photographer Feature
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon, Trainer, or Route.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier.  Multiply the result by 20. This is the value of the photo. You may choose to sell this photograph anywhere.

Action Photo			Photographer Feature
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You or an ally are attacked by a Pokemon using a Move
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier.  If the total exceeds 15, you successfully obtain a photo of the Move. Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier.  Multiply the total by 20.  This it the value of the photo. You may choose to sell this photograph anywhere.


Photographer Features

Action Photo +			Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photographer, 22 WIS
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: A Pokemon performs a move.
     Effect:  Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier.  If the total exceeds 15, you successfully obtain a photo of the Move.  You may choose to sell this photograph anywhere.  If you do, roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier.  Multiply the total by 25.  This it the value of the photo.  This feature replaces 
Action Photo.
  
Battle Study				Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photographer
     Static
     Effect: While you posses a photograph taken with Action Photo of a specific Move, any use of that Move will require +2 on an Accuracy Check to hit you or your Pokemon.

Camera Flash 			Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photographer, Flash Bulb (500)
     At-Will
     Effect: Use the Move Flash.  You may use this feature as a Free Action when you use Snapshot or 
Action Photo, but must share the same target as that Feature.

Examine 					Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photographer, 22 WIS
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You use Snapshot on a Pokemon or Trainer
     Effect: You may use the move Foresight on Snapshot’s Target as a free action. Alternatively, you may, as a Trainer Action, study a Photo you have already taken to use Foresight on the photo’s target.  If you do, the Photo is destroyed.

Natural Shot				Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photographer, 20 WIS
     Static
     Trigger: You use Snapshot on a Wild Pokemon
     Effect: Instead of multiplying your Snapshot roll by 20, multiply the result by 80 minus the Pokemon’s species Capture Rate or 20, whichever is higher.

Pester Ball A			Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photographer
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Effect: Roll 1d20 and add you WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 15 the target must attempt to attack its nearest enemy and may not flee.  Additionally, the target target may only use Moves that can deal damage for the next 1d6 turns. Pester Ball A cannot target a Pokemon who has already been 
successfully hit with Pester Ball A during this encounter.  It costs 50 to use this Feature.







Pester Ball B			Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photographer
     Daily - Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add you WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 15, the target becomes Confused.  
Additionally, the target has its movement Capabilities reduced by X for 1d6 turns, where X is half your WIS modifier. Pester Ball B cannot target a Pokemon who has already been successfully hit with Pester Ball B during this encounter. It costs 50 to use this Feature.

Pester Ball C			Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photographer, a Pester Ball A or B
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add you WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 20, the target is Poisoned. 
Additionally,  the target must roll +1 to hit during Accuracy Checks for the rest of the encounter. 
Pester Ball C cannot target a Pokemon who has already been successfully hit with Pester Ball C during this encounter. It costs 90 to use this Feature.

Pester Ball D			Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photographer, a Pester Ball A or B
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add you WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 20, the target may not use any moves that target a foe on its next turn, though it may still use moves that target its allies or itself. Additionally, for the remainder of the encounter the target’s Capture Rate is raised by 20. Pester Ball D cannot target a Pokemon who has already been successfully hit with Pester Ball D during this encounter. It costs 90 to use this Feature.

Photo Research			Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photographer, Did The Homework
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Effect: Select a Photo of a Pokemon, Trainer, or Route taken with Snapshot.  You gain a single Insight Point of the Photo’s target, as if you had used Did The Homework. The Photo is Destroyed.

Photo Tutor     			Photographer Feature               
     Prerequisites: Photographer, 5 Photographer Features
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A Pokemon.
     Effect: Select a Photo taken with Action Photo or Action Photo +, that is of a Move that the target can be learn by Level Up, TM or by Move Tutor.  Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier.  If the total exceeds 20, the target learns that Move.  Regardless of success, the Photo is destroyed. Once you successfully use Photo Tutor on a pokemon, Photo Tutor may not target that pokemon ever again.

Tutor Mastery			Photographer Feature
     Prerequisites: Photo Tutor
     Static
     Effect: You may target your own Pokemon up to three times with Photo Tutor. If you later trade away your Pokemon, they forget all but one of the Tutored moves. 

Professor

	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Researcher, 21 INT

	Bonus: +1 INT


Base Features


Walking Doctorate			Professor Feature
     Static
     Target: Anything related to knowledge you are allowed to look up.
     Effect: You know pokemon data, relating to pokemon in your pokedex, about specific location and base stats. You may consult the GM’s Bestiary. Restricted to non-Legendary Pokemon.

Flawless Classification		Professor Feature
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Any Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll d20 and add your INT and WIS modifiers to the roll. If you roll higher than 15, you know which stat is the highest for the targeted Pokemon and which stat is the lowest. If you roll higher than 20, you know the exact values for those stats.



Professor Features

Critical Advice				Professor Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor, Field Commander, Level 10
     Daily – Every 8 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Allies.
     Effect: During the next round of an encounter, all Moves and Trainer Attacks are Critical Hits on 
16-20. The Critical Hit range may not be altered in any other way during the next round of combat.

Demoralize					Professor Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor, Field Commander
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Foe pokemon.
     Effect: Pick either Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense or Speed and lower the chosen stat of each enemy pokemon’s within X meters of by 1 Combat Stage. X is your INT modifier.

Efficiency Boost				Professor Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor, Field Commander, Level 10
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Allies.
     Effect: During the next round of an encounter, any action that an ally performs that requires a d20 roll may add X to their roll where X is your INT modifier. Cannot be used with Moves that set targets to a certain HP.

Fighting Read				Professor Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor
     Daily - Every 4 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Any trainer.
     Effect: Roll d20 and add your INT and WIS modifiers to the roll. If you roll higher then 15, your GM must give to you 6 pokemon species of which 4 are owned by the target trainer. If the target does not own 4 pokemon, only two pokemon which are owned are revealed.

Morale Boost					Professor Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor, Field Commander
     Daily – Every 7 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: Allied pokemon.
     Effect: Pick either Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense or Speed and raise the chosen stat of each of your ally’s pokemon’s within X meters of you by 1 Combat Stage until the end of the encounter.

Morale Rally					Professor Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor, Morale Boost
     Daily
     Target: Allied pokemon.
     Effect: Pick either Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense or Speed and raise the chosen stat of each of your ally’s pokemon’s within X meters of you by X. X is your INT modifier. Morale Rally lasts until the end of the encounter.







Poke Linguist				Professor Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor
     Static
     Effect: You can speak and understand a single species of Pokemon and all of the evolutions related to that Pokemon. You may take Poke Linguist more then once.

Sabotage						Professor Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor, Game Plan
     Daily
     Target: Wild pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If you rolled above 15, shift all wild foes up to X meters where X is your INT modifier or your WIS modifier.

Tactical Maneuver			Professor Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor, Tactical Strike
     Daily – Every 4 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your pokemon who just succesfully used a Move.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If you rolled above 15, an allied Trainer’s pokemon may
perform an At-Will Move or EOT Move even if it has already used a Move during that round of the
encounter. The target may shift an additional time. You must have line of sight to the Pokemon who is
reciving your extra command.

Tactical Strike				Professor Feature
     Prerequisites: Professor, Field Commander
     Daily – Every 6 levels gained, you may perform this Class Feature another time per day.
     Target: One of your pokemon who just succesfully used a Move.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT modifier. If you rolled above 15, an allied Trainer’s pokemon may
perform an At-Will Move even if it has already used a Move during that round of the encounter. You must have line of sight to the Pokemon who is reciving your extra command.

Scientist


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Researcher, 18 INT

	Bonus: +1 INT


Base Features


Potions Mastery		Scientist Feature
     At-Will
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create either a Potion (100), a Super potion (175), or a Hyper Potion (225). Name the 
concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.

Repels Mastery		Scientist Feature
     At-Will
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create a Repel (100), a Super Repel (150) or a Max Repel (200). Name the concoction 
whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.



Scientist Features

Body Pills				Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist, a pokemon with at least 20 HP stat or Speed stat
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create a HP Up or Carbos. It costs 2450 to use Body Pills. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.

Defense Pills			Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist, a pokemon with at least 20 Defense stat or Special Defense stat
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create an Iron or Zinc. It costs 2450 to use Defense Pills. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.

Energy Brewer			Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist
     Daily – Every 2 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create an Ether. It costs 80 to use Energy Brewer. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.

Energy Mastery			Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist, Energy Brewer
     Daily – Every 2 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create an Elixir. It costs 270 to use Energy Mastery. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.

Offense Pills			Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist, a pokemon with at least 20 Attack stat or Special Attack stat
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create a Protein or Calcium. It costs 2450 to use Offense Pills. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.

Performance Enhancers	Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist, 14 WIS
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Roll 1d8. On a result of 1, you create a X Attack; on a result of 2, you create a X Defend; on a result of 3, you create a X Special; on a result of 4, you create a X Sp. Def; on a result of 5, you create a X Speed; on a result of 6, you create a X Accuracy; on a result of 7, you create a Dire Hit; on a result of 8, you create a Guard Spec. It costs 75 to use the Performance Enhancers Feature. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.







Performance Enhancer Mastery	Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist, Performance Enhancers has been used at least 3 times
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create either a X Attack, a X Defend, a X Special, a X Sp. Def, a X Speed, a X Accuracy, a Dire Hit or a Guard Spec. It costs 50 to use the Performance Enhancer Mastery Feature. This Feature replaces
Performance Enhancers. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.

Frequency Pills				Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist, Body Pills, Defense Pills, Offense Pills
     Daily
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create a PP Up. It costs 4900 to use Frequency Pills. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.

Status Brewer				Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Roll 1d6. On a result of 1, you create an Antidote; on a result of 2, you create an Awakening; on a result of 3, you create a Burn Heal; on a result of 4, you create an Ice Heal; on a result of 5, you create a Paralyze Heal; on a result of 6, you create a Full Heal. It costs 100 to use the Status Brewer Feature. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of whatever ingredients you’d like.

Status Mastery				Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist, Status Brewer has been used at least 3 times
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create an Antidote, Awakening, Burn Heal, Ice Heal or Paralyze Heal for 100 or create a Full Heal for 250 . This Feature replaces Status Brewer. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of 
whatever ingredients you’d like.

Trait Suppressant 			Scientist Feature
     Prerequisites: Scientist
     Daily – Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Items.
     Effect: Create an item with the same effect as a Pomeg, Kelpsy, Qualot, Hondew, Grepa or Tomato Berry. It costs 1250 to use Trait Suppressant. Name the concoction whatever you’d like out of 
whatever ingredients you’d like.

Watcher


	Advanced Feature

	Prerequisites: 
	Researcher, 16 WIS

	Bonus: +1 WIS


Base Features


Family Finder			Watcher Feature
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Wild Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your INT and WIS modifiers. If the total exceeds 15, you track where this pokemon lives in the area. If there are other pokemon of the same species or evolution line in the area, you will either find them there or hints to where they may be. If the total exceeds 20, you locate food sources and other resources pokemon of this evolutionary line rely upon, which may include berry plants, vegetation, sources of water and other things depending on GM discretion.

Close Watch				Watcher Feature
     Daily – Every 3 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Wild Pokemon.
     Effect: Multiply your WIS modifier by 5m. This is the farthest you may move without alerting a Wild’s attention. You may approach a Wild Pokemon without alerting it to your presence, until you stop moving. The pokemon you approach is not instantly provoked but may be startled. You may 
attempt to befriend the Wild as long as you don’t provoke it.



Watcher Features

Applied Psychology			Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher
     At-Will
     Target: A person that you suspect may be willing to lie.
     Effect: When you declare the use of this feature, specify a statement made by the target and you will immediately know whether or not it is completely truthful. This feature may be used on recorded 
information. If the target is saying something that they believe is true, then they do not appear to be lying.

Berrydex						Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher
     Static
     Target: Berries.
     Effect: You can identify any Berry its properties and what it yields in terms of Contest Stats. When you are making Berries into Poffins, Aprijuice or PokeBlocks, you get +2 to your rolls.

Discriminating Gaze			Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher, 18 WIS
     Daily - Every 5 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Pokemon
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 10, you identify whether the target pokemon has an elemental typing, ability, capability or move not natural to its species. If the total 
exceeds 20, you know all the specific differences between that pokemon and a normal member of its 
species.

Improved Tracking			Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher, a pokemon with Tracker capability
     Static
     Effect: Whenever your Pokemon roll to use the Tracker capability, add 5 to the roll.

Odor Sleuth Tutor			Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher, Improved Tracking
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: A pokemon who is leveling up to a level evenly divisible by 5.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 15, the pokemon learns the Move, Odor Sleuth. Once you successfully use Odor Sleuth Tutor on a pokemon, Odor Sleuth Tutor may not target that pokemon ever again.

Quick Draw					Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher, 18 WIS, Drawing Pad, Writing Utensils
     Static
     Effect: You are a master sketch artist. It takes you less than a minute to sketch anything you see.









Shiny Hunt				Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher, 24 WIS
     Daily - Every 20 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Anywhere on a route.
     Effect: Roll 1d100. If you rolled under you WIS modifier multiplied by 3, a shiny pokemon will appear in the next wild encounter.

Silent Study				Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher, WIS 18
     Static
     Effect: If you use Close Watch, you don’t alert the pokemon’s attention unless you want to after 
approaching with Close Watch. As long as you do not make it obvious you are there, the Wild will not know you are there.

Treacherous Research		Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher, 22 WIS
     Daily - Every 15 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: An area, trainer or organization
     Effect: Spend at least 15 minutes studying research material about or watching the target. Choose up to three Moves. For the rest of the day, you may use the move Spite one time as a trainer action against the target trainer or a pokemon or trainer from or owned by the target as if their last used Move was one of the chosen Moves. You may only use Treacherous Research once per target per day.

Type Finder				Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher
     Daily – Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Target: Wild Pokemon.
     Effect: Roll 1d20 and add your WIS modifier. If the total exceeds 13, you find hints that indicate what other pokemon of the same Type live in the area. You must still use other means to find these pokemon. If the total exceeds 20, you locate food sources and other resources pokemon of this Type commonly rely upon, which may include berry plants, vegetation, sources of water and other things depending on GM discretion.

Watchful Tactician		Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher, Game Plan
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You start an encounter with wild pokemon
     Effect: You may, as a free action, use Game Plan, Game Plan+, or Sabotage at the beginning of this encounter before any other trainers or pokemon take actions. You must have the corresponding Feature to use it via Watchful Tactician. Using a Feature in such a way depletes both a use of that Feature and of Watchful Tactician. You may only activate Watchful Tactician once per trigger.

Watchful Tactician+		Watcher Feature
     Prerequisites: Watcher, Watchful Tactician
     Daily - Every 10 levels gained, you may perform this Feature another time per day.
     Trigger: You start an encounter of any sort
     Effect: You may, as a free action, use Game Plan, Game Plan+, or Sabotage at the beginning of this encounter before any other trainers or pokemon take actions. You must have the corresponding Feature to use it via Watchful Tactician+. Using a Feature in such a way depletes both a use of that Feature and of Watchful Tactician+. You may only activate Watchful Tactician+ once per trigger. Watchful Tactician+ replaces Watchful Tactician.


Cross Classing

Cross Classing is the means through which a player can take up an Advanced Class, without having the usual Trainer Class prerequisite. Taking a Class through Cross Classing does take up one of a player’s Class slots, but provides you with a way to take multiple Advanced Classes from different base Classes. Taking any class through the Cross Classing list does come with a penalty: You do not gain the Stat Bonus, usually gained through taking the Advanced Class. However, you still gain both starting Features.
	Below is the list for Cross Classing, sorted by Trainer Classes, then the Advanced Classes that usually branch from those Trainer Classes. If a Class is available for Cross Classing, the prerequisites will be listed below the Advanced Class’ name. Some classes will have multiple lists of prerequisites. You do not have to meet all of the sets of prerequisites; only one of the lists must be met in order to qualify for that Cross Classing. If the Class is not allowed for Cross Classing, it will be stated that it is an 
Advanced Class exclusive to the Trainer Class it stems from.

Ace Trainer

Chaser
     - Pokemon Trainer, 18 STR, 3 Pokemon with Pursuit

Enduring Soul
     - Tough Guy, 16 CON, 12 STR, Trainer knocked unconscious by a foe at least once or 3 pokemon 		with Endure
     - Guardian, 18 CON, Trainer knocked unconscious by a foe at least once or 3 pokemon 
	with Endure

Stat Ace
     - Buffet, 16 STR, 14 CON, 3 Pokemon with the chosen stat of 20 or more
     - Coach, 16 STR, 3 Pokemon with the chosen stat of 20 or more
     - Beauty Modeler (Must choose Special Attack Ace), 16 STR, 3 Pokemon with 
	Special Attack of 20 or more
     - Cool Trainer (Must choose Attack Ace), 16 STR, 3 Pokemon with Attack of 20 or more
     - Cute Idol (Must choose Speed Ace), 16 STR, 3 Pokemon with Speed of 20 or more
     - Tough Guy (Must choose Defense Ace), 16 STR, 3 Pokemon with Defense of 20 or more
     - Smart Teacher (Must choose Special Defense Ace), 16 STR, 3 Pokemon with 
	Special Defense of 20 or more
     - Enduring Soul (Must choose Defense or Special Defense Ace), 3 Pokemon with 
	the chosen stat of 20 or more
     - Chaser (Must choose Speed Ace), 3 Pokemon with Speed of 20 or more

Strategist
     - Pokemon Trainer, 4 Badges and/or Frontier Medals

Tag Battler
     - Pokemon Trainer, Dual Wielding, 6 loyal Pokemon, 14 CON, 14 STR





Type Ace
     - Pokemon Trainer, 14 CON, 4 Pokemon of the chosen Type

Underdog
     - Pokemon Trainer, Prevented 4 Pokemon from evolving, 16 CON, 12 STR

Breeder


Botanist
     - Survivalist, 14 WIS, Portable Berry Planter (2500)
     - Buffet, 12 CHA, Portable Berry Planter (2500)
     - Watcher, Berrydex, 14 CHA, Portable Berry Planter (2500)

Chef
     - Pokemon Trainer, 20 WIS

Evolver
     - Unique to the Breeder

Groomer
     - Coordinator, 14 WIS, 2 Contest Ribbons

Hatcher
     - Unique to the Breeder

Medic
     - Ranger, 14 WIS, Field First Aid Kit (650)
     - Pokemon Trainer, Remedial First Aid, 20 WIS, Field First Aid Kit (650)

Move Tutor
     - Scientist, 18 WIS, 14 CHA, Used 10 TMs on your Pokemon
     - Photographer, 14 CHA, used 10 TMs on your Pokemon, Photo Tutor
     - Coach, 18 WIS, used 10 TMs on your Pokemon

Capture Specialist

Artificer
     - Martial Artist, 16 DEX, 12 INT
     - Fashion Designer, 14 DEX
     - Researcher, 14 DEX

Collector
     - Pokemon Trainer, 14 DEX, 14 INT, 20 different Pokemon Owned in Pokedex

Engineer
     - Researcher, 18 INT, Mech Arm (10,000)
     - Pokemon Trainer: 20 INT, Mech Arm (10,000)
     - Artificer, 16 INT, Mech Arm (10,000)



Juggler
     - Martial Artist, 18 DEX

Pokeball Designer
     - Unique to the Capture Specialist

Snagger
     - Unique to the Capture Specialist

Trapper
     - Survivalist, 12 INT
     - Petrologist, Call Me Hori Taizo, 14 DEX
     - Watcher, 14 DEX, 14 INT
     - Collector, 18 DEX
     - Chaser, 16 DEX, Hunting Techniques

Coordinator

Beauty Modeler
     - Pokemon Trainer, 2 Beauty Ribbons, a Pokemon with 12 Beauty Stat, 16 CON

Choreographer
     - Touched, 16 CON, 12 CHA
     - Juggler, 16 CON, 12 CHA

Cool Trainer
     - Pokemon Trainer, 2 Cool Ribbons, a Pokemon with 12 Cool Stat, 16 CHA
     - Ace Trainer, 2 Cool Ribbons, a Pokemon with 12 Cool Stat, 14 CHA

Cute Idol
     - Pokemon Trainer, 2 Cute Ribbons, a Pokemon with 12 Cute Stat, 16 CHA
     - Breeder, 2 Cute Ribbons, a Pokemon with 12 Cute Stat

Fashion Designer
     - Unique to the Coordinator

Smart Teacher
     - Pokemon Trainer, 2 Smart Ribbons, a Pokemon with 12 Smart Stat, 16 CHA
     - Researcher, 2 Smart Ribbons, a Pokemon with 12 Smart Stat, 14 CHA

Tough Guy
     - Pokemon Trainer, 2 Tough Ribbons, a Pokemon with 12 Tough Stat, 16 CON
     - Martial Artist, 2 Tough Ribbons, a Pokemon with 12 Tough Stat, 14 CON

Martial Artist

Athlete
     - Tag Battler, 18 STR
     - Commander, 18 STR
     - Tough Guy, 18 STR, 12 DEX

Aura User
     - Pokemon Trainer, Chosen One, 18 STR, a Pokemon with the Aura capability.

Black Belt
     - Unique to the Martial Artist

Dirty Fighter
     - Pokemon Trainer, 20 DEX

Massage Therapist
     - Groomer, 14 DEX

Ninja
     - Juggler, 14 STR
     - Poison Ace, 16 DEX

Weapon Master
Pokemon Trainer, Weapon of Choice, 20 STR

Mystic

Bodysnatcher
     - Detective, 20 WIS, Master of Disguise, Lie Detector

Buffet
     - Coach, 14 WIS
     - Botanist, 12 STR, has Merged a stat-affecting Berry

Godspeaker
     - Unique to the Mystic

Guardian
     - Aura User, 14 WIS, own pokemon with reflect and light screen
     - Enduring Soul, 16 STR, 12 WIS, own pokemon with reflect and light screen

Rune Master
     - Cryptozoologist, 5 Unowns
     - Petrologist, 5 Unowns
     - Watcher, 5 Unowns





Shaman
     - Unique to the Mystic

Touched
     - Pokemon Trainer, Allied with a legendary Pokemon, a musical instrument, 18 STR

Psychic

Air Adept
     - Type Ace (Electric or Flying), 16 INT

Clairsentient
     - Pokemon Trainer, 22 INT, 2 Psychic Type Pokemon, Voltorb Flip

Earth Shaker
     - Type Ace (Rock, Ground or Grass), 16 INT

Empath
     - Mystic, 16 INT, a Pokemon you’ve leveled up through training 25 levels
     - Watcher, 16 INT, 12 CON, a Pokemon you’ve leveled up through training 25 levels

Fire Breather
     - Type Ace (Fire, Dark or Ghost), 16 INT

Hex Maniac
     - Unique to the Psychic

Rain Waker
Type Ace (Water or Ice), 16 INT

Ranger

Coach
     - Coordinator, 16 CHA, 12 DEX
     - Move Tutor, 16 CHA, 12 DEX
     - Stat Ace, 16 CHA, 12 DEX
     - Rider, 16 CHA

Commander
     - Pokemon Trainer, 18 CHA, Let Me Help You With That+

Detective
     - Pokemon Trainer: 20 CHA

Rider
     - Pokemon Trainer: 20 DEX, 2 Pokemon who have served as a mount for a day each





Signer
     - Unique to the Ranger

Special Operations Member
     - Unique to the Ranger

Survivalist
     - Watcher, 18 DEX, Spent a full week in the wild
     - Capture Specialist, 18 DEX, Informed Tracker+, Spent a full week in the wild
     - Botanist, 16 DEX, Spent a full week in the wild

Researcher

Cryptozoologist
     - Signer, 16 WIS, Encountered at least 2 Legendary Pokemon
     - Mystic, 16 INT, Encountered at least 2 Legendary Pokemon

Dream Doctor
     - Unique to the Researcher

Petrologist
     - Trapper, 18 INT, Trusty Shovel and Excavation Kit (2500)
     - Rune Master, 16 INT, Trusty Shovel and Excavation Kit (2500)
     - Type Ace (Ground or Rock), 16 INT, Trusty Shovel and Excavation Kit (2500)
     - Artificer, 18 INT, Trusty Shovel and Excavation Kit (2500)

Photographer
     - Pokemon Trainer: 19 WIS, Camera (4,500)

Professor
     - Unique to the Researcher

Scientist
     - Chef, 14 INT
     - Smart Teacher, 16 INT
     - Capture Specialist, 16 INT, 12 WIS

Watcher
Pokemon Trainer, 20 WIS, Drawing Pad (50)

Managing Your Pokemon


	Before capturing your Pokemon, you’ll need to know how to manage your Pokemon! The next section details what you need to know to use the Pokemon character sheet provided at the end of the Player’s Handbook. Note that you should always round down unless otherwise specified.
	First off- you’ll want to name your Pokemon! If you call your Bulbasaur, Bulbasaur, it’d be no 
different from parents giving their kid the name, Human. Bulbasuar is an example of the Pokemon’s 
Species, not it’s name. Keep track of your Pokemon’s Level with experience points or EXP. It’s important to keep track of EXP so you know when your Pokemon learns new moves. The Pokemon’s Type is relevant to know when you Pokemon is weak or resistant against a particular Type of Moves.

Stats


	Pokemon Stats are different from Trainer stats. Like Trainer, there are six distinct stats,  but these stats are used for very different things and do not commonly cross over with Trainer Stats.

     - HP
	HP is used to keep track of your Pokemon’s Hit Points. When the Pokemon’s Hit Points reach 0, the Pokemon is unable to make any actions and in unconscious. Hit Points are calculated with this 
formula:
					Pokemon’s Level + (HP stat x 3)

     - Attack
	The Attack stat is used to calculate damage when making a physical based attack. After calculating damage, add the value of your Pokemon’s Attack stat to Melee - Attack damage and Ranged - Attack 
damage.

     - Defense
	The Defense Stat is used when you receive damage from a Melee - Attack or Ranged - Attack Move. Subtract the Defense stat from Damage from Melee - Attack or Ranged - Attack Moves. You may add 1 Defense Evasion bonus for every 5 points in Defense when targeted by a Ranged - Attack or 
Melee - Attack Move.

     - Special Attack
	The Special Attack stat is used to calculate damage when making a special based attack. After 
calculating damage, add the value of your Pokemon’s Special Attack stat to Ranged - Special Attack 
damage and Melee - Special Attack damage.

     - Special Defense
	The Special Defense Stat is used when you receive damage from a Ranged - Special Attack or 
Melee - Special Attack Move. Subtract the Special Defense stat from Damage from Ranged - Special 
Attack or Melee - Special Attack Moves. You may add 1 Special Defense Evasion bonus for every 5 points in Special Defense when targeted by a Ranged - Special Attack or Melee - Special Attack Move.

     - Speed
	The Pokemon with the highest Speed stat goes first during round. You may add 1 Speed Evasion bonus for every 10 points in Speed when targeted by any Move.

Evasion

	Pokemon have three different sets of Evasion. Physical Evasion, Special Evasion, and Speed 
Evasion. Evasion helps Pokemon avoid being hit by moves. When being targeted by a move that has an Accuracy Check, a Pokemon adds their Evasion score to the move’s accuracy check. Physical Evasion may modify only attacks that use the attack stat, while Special Evasion may modify only attacks that use the Special Attack Stat. Speed Evasion may be used to modify the Accuracy Check of any attack, but you may only add one of your three Evasion scores to any one check.

     - Physical and Special Evasion are determined by a Pokemon’s Defense and Special Defense Stats 
	respectively. For every 5 points they have in the relevant defense stat, that evasion is increased 
	by +1, up to a maximum of +6.
     - Speed Evasion is determined by a Pokemon’s Speed Stat. For every 10 points they have in Speed, 
	their evasion is increased by +1, up to a maximum of +6.

	Beside these base values for evasion, many other things can modify Evasion. Raising your Defense, Special Defense, and Speed Combat Stages raises the relevant Evasion by +1. You do not gain further benefits to evasion from the artificially increased defense score, however. Abilities and Move Effects that modify your Evasion do so for all three of your Evasion scores. For example, the Illuminate Ability helps you avoid all three kinds of attacks.

	No matter from which sources you’re receiving evasion, you may only ever raise a move’s 
Accuracy Check by a maximum of +9. This mean that a Move with an accuracy Check of 2 can be, at most, raised to 11. An Accuracy Check may not be raised above 20 with Evasion scores.


Combat Stages


	Many moves alter the stats of Pokemon , either making them more formidable or less 
threatening. During battle, any stat can only be only be risen or lowered up to six times positively or six times negatively. This makes a scale, from -6 to +6 that can be altered as many times as the battle allows but never more then +6 Combat Stages or less than -6 Combat Stages.

     - If a Pokemon’s stat is raised a Combat Stage during battle, they gain a 25% bonus the buffed stat, 
	rounded down.
     - If a pokemon’s stat is lowered one Combat Stage during battle, they lose 12.5% of the affected stat,
 	rounded up.

	This means that if a stat has raised 6 Combat Stages; its affected stat should be 250% of its 
original value. If a stat has been lowered 6 Combat Stages, its affected stat should be 40% of its original value. For every 2 Combat Stages the Speed stat is raised, the Pokemon’s Speed Capabilities are raised 1 value. For every 3 Combat Stages the Speed stat is lowered, the Pokemon’s Speed Capabilities are 
lowered 1 value. Speed Capabilities may not be lowered below 1.

Using and Leveling Pokemon Stats

	When keeping track of Pokemon Stats, keep the Pokemon’s Base Stats in one column on the Pokemon’s character sheet. Keep the added stats, gained through level up, in another column. Keep their Actual Stats in the third column. The Actual Stats is the sum of the Base Stats and added stats.

	Here is a neutral Nature Charmander’s Base Stats. This Charmander is at level 1.

	HP 		- 4
	ATK 		- 5
	DEF 		- 4
	SPATK 	- 6
	SPDEF 	- 5
	SPEED 	- 7

	When a Pokemon levels up, you must put one stat point into a stat that won’t ruin the Base 
Relation of a Pokemon’s base stats. The Base Relation of stats is the order of the stats according to the highest Base Stat of a Pokemon, followed by the seconded highest Base Stat and the next highest Base Stats after that, until you have created a list of the order of a Pokemon’s Base Stats from highest to lowest. Ruining the Base Relation means when you add a Stat Point to a stat while leveling up, the Base Relation was changed.

	This Charmander’s Base Relation is:
     Speed (7) > Special Attack (6) > Attack and Special Defense (5) > Hit Points and Defense (4)

	This means you must put a stat point into Charmander’s SPEED at level 2. So that the Special 
Attack of the Charmander does not equal Speed, ruining the Base Relation.

	When it comes to ties in a Pokemon’s Base Relation, you never need to keep those two stats equal. The difference between two stats, tied in the Base Relation, does not matter, as long as the next highest stats in the Base Relation is kept higher then the tied Base Stats and the next lowest stats in the Base 
Relation is kept lower then the tied Base Stats.

	Let’s say at level 4, you added to Charmander’s ATK. This is what its stats now look like:


	In order to preserve Base Relation, at level 2, 1 point was added to SPEED. At level 3, 1 point was added to SPATK. At level 4, 1 point was added to ATK. At level 5, for example, you may not add to HP or DEF because that will ruin Base Relation. It would tie with ATK.

	Here is that Charmander at level 20, when spreading its stats evenly.












	Notice that the Stat points that are being added are almost all equal per different Stat when 
		choosing to evenly distribute Stats.

	Here is that same Charmander when its trainer is raising only its prominent stats.












	The Base Relation of the Base Stats is maintained here. You do not need to add stats 
		evenly as long as the Base Stats’ Base Relation is kept.

	Here is that same Charmander when its trainer is trying to make it hit harder with Melee Moves.


	This can be frustrating when you want a Charmander who is a Melee sweeper. 
		This is where Natures come in to play.

	A Brave, which adds ATK and takes SPEED, natured Charmander instead 
		would have these Base Stats at Level 1:
      
	HP 		- 4
	ATK 		- 7 (Instead of 5)
	DEF 		- 4
	SPATK 	- 6
	SPDEF 	- 5
	SPEED 	- 5 (Instead of 7)
      
	A Nature will add two to a Base Stat and subtract two to another Base Stat, making a completely different Base Relation in many cases. Now you can focus more on this Charmander’s ATK without even worrying about increasing its SPEED.
      
	IMPORTANT: The only exception is the HP stat! When a Nature adds to or takes from the 
		Base Stats in the HP category, the HP Base Stat is only changed by 1 point.

	Look at this Brave Charmander, now at level 20.









      


	This Charmander can now potentially be a sweeper with its superior ATK and SP.ATK, plus with some SPEED it gains evasion bonuses. Though, due to its lower other stats, if this Charmander fails to defeat an opponent it is likely to be swept itself.

	Like Natures, Vitamins can alter Base Stats. Vitamins are expensive items that can be fed to a Pokemon, with any combination of 5 vitamins at max, improving a Pokemon’s Base Stats in order to allow them to change how they distribute stats as they level up.

	A Base Stat can never be 0 as a result of Nature. 
	If a Pokemon’s Nature changes a Base Stat to 0, instead the stat is 1.

     - Starting at level 51, Pokemon gain two Added Stats per level gained. These two stats may not be put 	
	into the same Stat. When adding stats, a Pokemon’s Base Relation must still be maintained.
     - Starting at level 76, Pokemon gain three Added Stats per level gained. These three stats may not be 
	put into the same Stat. When adding stats, a Pokemon’s Base Relation must still be maintained.

	On the Natures page is a chart of Natures and how they effect your Pokemon’s Base Stats.
Natures also effect what kinds of food your Pokemon like.

Natures





	When you catch a Pokemon, your GM will provide the Pokemon’s Nature. Add stats accordingly up to whatever level it is. When your Pokemon evolves, reset its Base Stats and add stats up to whatever level it is.
	When a Nature adds to or takes from the Base Stats in the HP category, the HP Base Stat is only changed by 1 point. This means that Desperate, Stark, Bashful, Sickly and Serious only take away 1 point in the HP Base Stat. In addition to that; Hardy, Docile, Proud, Quirky and Lazy only add 1 point in the HP Base Stat.

STAB Chart



	Same-Type-Attack Bonus, or STAB, is a bonus damage you gain when using a Move that deals damage and has a matching Type with one of the Pokemon’s Type.

     	      This is the Stab Chart.


















	When you level up to a Level that ends in the number 5 or 0, your STAB value will change. Please note that these values can go above 20 due to the effects of Moves, Feats or Abilities

Pokemon Experience Chart
	Unlike Trainers, Pokemon individually gain experience points from encounters in battle, from a Trainer’s role playing in raising their Pokemon, or Contests. Keep track of EXP. It let’s you know when you gain more stat points and when you learn new Natural Moves.

Breeding



	When attempting to mate 2 Pokemon, you must roll d100 when you retrieve them.
	Pokemon need at least 8 hours of privacy in order to make a Breeding Check. For each hour after the required 8 that the the two Pokemon have alone, up to 5 additional hours, you may subtract 2 from your Breeding Check’s roll (up to 10).
     - If you roll under 25, an egg is produced. Trainers may only try to make a Breeding Check once 
		per every 24 hours.
     - If you roll under 5, you may flip a coin to choose which parents’ species is passed to the Egg. 
	Otherwise, the Mother’s species is passed on to the egg.
	Any moves that the parents know that are on the baby Pokemon’s Egg Move list, once it hatches, are learned. Any moves that the parents know that are on the baby Pokemon’s TM Move list, once it hatches, are learned. Only four Moves may be passed on to the baby Pokemon in these ways.














Fossil Reanimation

	Reanimation occurs when a fossil is used to either clone, reanimate, or replicate a long dead 
imprint into a living Pokemon. This can occur at specialized labs or at the hands of a Petrologist with access to the right equipment. No matter the location or assistance, any reanimation takes 6 hours, in addition to any other time needed for the Pokemon to become active. After providing an appropriate fossil for reanimation, roll a d20 to see how successful the procedure was. In all cases of a regular trainer attempting a reanimation, the fossil is destroyed.

Loyalty



	A Trainer’s Pokemon does not exist in a vacuum. Natures, likes, dislikes, and the habits of species do and should play a part in how a trainer interacts with his team. Cruel conduct and bitter medicine, even in the pursuit of being the best, can have major consequences if a trainer goes overboard.
	A Pokemon’s Loyalty is measured in a statistic measured by the GM. There are 5 ranks of loyalty, 0 to 4, and these ranks measure how well the Pokemon listens to you, how defiant they may become, or how vulnerable they are to being snagged and stolen by illicit parties. In general, Loyalty 3 is the sweet spot for most Pokemon, while Loyalty 4 is reserved for well-treated Starter Pokemon or Pokemon that have been with the trainer for so many years and through so many adventures that they might as well be that trainer’s starter. Captured Pokemon will vary but generally start at loyalty 1, and Pokemon hatched from eggs always start at loyalty 2. These are, however, only guidelines. A particularly traumatic birth can render a baby Pokemon scarred, lowering them to Loyalty 1 or worse, while a cruel or undeserved capture may give you a Pokemon at loyalty 0. On the other hand, a capture via befriending a Pokemon, rather than beating it up, may result in a higher starting loyalty.
	Another way Loyalty is important is in the use of some features and Pokemon moves. Return will only work if used by a Loyalty 3 or 4 Pokemon, while Frustration will only work when used by Loyalty 0 or 1. The GM may give you hints about how much a Pokemon loves you, but is not obligated to tell you a Pokemon’s precise Loyalty Rank, and it is ultimately his call to raise or lower a particular Pokemon’s loyalty rank if he deems your action worthy of it.


Evolution

	When Pokemon mature and age, their body drastically changes in mass and shape to reach a new Stage of their Evolutionary Line. Some Pokemon do not Evolve while others do and other can Evolve twice in their lifetime. Aside from learning more about the world and physically maturing, Pokemon need a great deal of emotion to urge their Evolution. Sometimes, confidence and happiness is enough for a pokemon to evolve and other times, it is a Pokemon’s frustration and hate that pushes it to change. Not all Pokemon can naturally evolve without foreign aid. Some Pokemon require the radiation found in Evolutionary Stones to mutate themselves into their next form. There are also Pokemon who require the attachment of a keepsake to promote their evolution. Next to these various ways to evolve there are even more ways for a Pokemon to meet their next level of maturity.
	The bond between the trainer and pokemon can promote or hold off evolution. There’s one greater force than regular evolution however, so Loyalty is important for...

Mega Evolution

	A fully Evolved Pokemon, in possession of a Mega Stone, is capable of 
Mega Evolution. On their own, Pokemon with the appropriate Mega-Stone are able to access their 
Mega Evolved form in times of great stress or triumph. If a trainer has a Key Stone, and the bond 
between the trainer and Pokemon is strong enough, the trainer can urge their partners to Mega-Evolve by activating their Key Stone. 
	Activating a Key Stone is a Trainer Action that you can perform once you have the Trainer 
Feature, “Mega Evolver”. The Pokemon activating their held Mega Stone immediately changes into their Mega form as a free action. The Mega Evolution lasts for 10 minutes, or until the Mega Evolved 
Pokemon is brought down to 0 HP. Mega Evolution modify Base Stats temporarily. If Mega Evolution affects your added Base Stat relations, it’s okay as it’s only temporary. Mega Evolution can also change a Pokemon’s Type or Ability, so be aware of these changes as well. You can find the Feature for Mega 
Evolution in the Trainer Features section.

Mounts

	Traveling on foot can become hard for any trainer, but with the proper tools and training, any pokemon can become a useful ride on the ground, the sea or the sky! When Trainers are using Pokemon as Mounts, travel becomes quicker for the party and the pokemon get to be out of their Poke Ball, 
grabbing some excercise. So then, what are the qualifications for a pokemon to be a mount? Ultimately, whether a Pokemon can serve as a mount or not is up to your GM, but here are some things to consider:
	- Size. If a Pokemon is too small, it wouldn’t make sense for a Trainer to be riding it, when the Trainer’s legs are dragging on the ground. This could be confusing for certain species of pokemon, but a quick lookat the pokemon’s level should serve as a hint as to whether or not the pokemon is too small for you. For example, a Ponyta around level 20 or 25, can serve as a mount. Ponyta may not be very tall, but it can support an average sized human considering its shape and its legs that are built to lift itself with 
little burden and quickly move around. However, a newly born Ponyta should not be able to lift a 
person at all. It would be very tiny. Another example would be an Onix. Onix could easy serve as an 
entire party’s land Mount. However, a newly born Onix would not be able to serve as even one person’s Mount as it would probably be no longer than a meter.
	- Power. If a Pokemon is large, but is as light as a feather or weak as a twig, it probably cannot carry your weight and keep itself up as well. This would be most obvious for a sky Mount. If the 
Pokemon’s Power is one or two, there should be no circumstance in which the pokemon would be able to carry your weight on their body.
	- Equipment. Some Pokemon might not ever be able to be a Mount, by itself. However, with a 
couple of Pokemon, such as a Nidorino and a Nidorina, some rope to use as reigns, a sled and some 
training, you could have a single mount between the two pokemon. A school of Magikarp could hold a matress up and make a raft-Mount. Several creative combinations of tools and Pokemon could create modes of transportation.












Mount Mechanics:
	- Mounting a Pokemon is a Trainer Action, and forfeits the Pokemon’s Shift and Move Actions that round.
	- When a Pokemon is being used as a Mount, its Speed Capabilities are lowered by three, and its Speed stat is lowered one Combat Stage. If you weigh less than a fourth of the pokemon’s weight, neither the pokemon’s Speed Capabilities nor their Speed stat’s Combat Stages are affected.
	- When mounted on a Pokemon, you may shift during your trainer turn using your Mount’s Speed Capabilities instead of your own. During Pokemon turns, your Mount may use any unused Speed, and may make a Move Action as normal if you use your Command Action.
	- If either you or your Pokemon who is being used as a Mount are hit by a damaging attack that deals damage equal or greater to 1/5th of the target’s Max HP, or are hit by a move that causes Paralysis, Confusion, or Sleep, you must make a check to remain mounted. Roll 1d20 and add your STR or DEX modifier. On a roll of 12 or higher, you remain on your mount. If the move had a Push effect, you must roll 15 or higher. A single Move may only cause you to roll this check once per round.

Pokemon:
Abilities/Moves

	Abilities and Moves distinguish Pokemon, but are shared across many species. Very few 
Pokemon have Moves that no other can use but those in its family. The same it true of Abilities. The following two sections are to be used with the Pokedex book in order to fill out Pokemon you have properly used your Pokedex on or Captured.
	Pokemon can naturally have up to 2 Abilities, but through the use of various Features or Items, they can have up to three Active Abilities. Moves are more complicated; Pokemon can have up to eight Moves, as long as four of them are naturally learned and the other four are used for artificially taught/tutored Moves.

Pokemon Abilities

An Ability is something a Pokemon is born with. Some Abilities are something they can’t turn off, and constantly follow them good or bad. Some of the Abilities naturally activate, under certain circumstances. Some Abilities require focus to execute; they release effects that give them and upper hand.
	Abilities have a Name, an Activation/Limit, Effects, and some Effects utilize Keywords.
	It’s ordered as such:
Name
Activation - Limit
Keywords: 
Effect: 


The Name is what the Ability is called. This is useful for keeping track of what Ability your pokemon has.
The Activation is how the Ability is used. If the Activation is Static, the pokemon cannot disable their ability, which normally means they have no Limit on their Ability. If the Activation is a Trigger, they can only use their Ability under certain circumstances described per move; some Triggered Abilities have Limits. An Ability with the Cast Activation must be declared to use its benefits; usually Cast Abilities have Limits but can be Activated instantly. Limits limit how often you can benefit from an Ability. Each Limit is detailed per move.
The Effect details what the Ability does. Sometimes, a Keyword is placed above the Effect line, to easily describe the Ability without jumbling up the rest of the Ability text. Some Ability Keywords derive from Move Keywords.
- At level 40, a Pokemon can learn a second Ability if you would like it to.
- You may choose this second Ability from its Basic Abilities or High Abilities.
	- You can never have more then three active Abilities on a Pokemon at any given time!
Keywords


ability keywords

Immune
	Abilities with the keyword Immune cannot be affected by a certain status effect. This is described per Move. Immune Abilities are usually Constant.

Last Chance
	Abilities with the keyword Last Chance trigger when the Pokemon’s HP has been lowered to 1/3 of their full HP or less. When activated, one elemental Type, defined per Ability, receives a boost for Moves performed by the Pokemon with the Last Chance Ability. All Moves that are the Type defined in the 
Ability receive an additional STAB when dealing damage (If a Pokemon’s STAB is 4, the attack will deal 4 STAB + 4 more for the Last Chance Ability).

Pickup
	The Ability with the Keyword Pickup is Pickup. When Pickup is used, you might find an item on the ground. The GM decides what the item is; the roll determines what kind of items it is.














Sustain
	Abilities with the keyword Sustain have their effects last as long as the user wants them to. Usually the Pokemon must remain out to Sustain the Ability. The requirements of Sustaining an effect, if any, are defined per Ability.

Ability List

A-

Adaptability
Static
Effect: When using Moves with a Damage Dice Roll that are the same elemental Type as the Pokemon with Adaptability, add 2 STAB instead of 1.


Aerilate
Static
Effect: The Pokemon’s Normal Type Moves are treated as Flying Type Moves. Add 2 STAB when dealing damage with Aerilate.


Aftermath
Trigger 
Effect: When the Pokemon is reduced to 0 HP or less, they create a 5-meter Burst. Everything in the Burst loses ¼ of their full HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance. Do not apply stats.


Air Lock
Cast – Hourly
Keyword: Sustain
Effect: The weather is set to normal as long as the Pokemon with Air Lock wants it to remain that way. 


Analytic
Cast - Hourly
Effect: For the next 5 rounds, if the user’s turn comes immediately after any of its target’s, in the queue, the user deals +1 STAB on Moves with Damage Dice Rolls, ignoring the Type of Move used. 


Anger Point
Trigger
Effect: When the Pokemon receives a Critical Hit, raise their Attack 6 Combat Stages.


Anticipation
Cast – Hourly
Effect: During an encounter you may target a Pokemon. Roll 1d20; on roll, the target reveals if they have any Moves that are Super-Effective against the Pokemon with Anticipation; on 11 or better, the target reveals up to 3 moves that are Super-Effective against the Pokemon with Anticipation; on 16 or better, the target reveals up to 5 moves that are Super-Effective against the Pokemon with Anticipation and all of those Moves must roll +1 during Accuracy Check to hit the Pokemon with Anticipation.


Arena Trap
Cast – Daily
Effect: A large wall of sand, 10-meters high surrounds the encounter. The diameter of the Arena Trap must be at least 10-meters but cannot be greater then 40-meters. There must be sufficient ground around to manipulate or the Ability cannot be used. The walls are constantly shifting making it impossible to climb. If a section of the wall is destroyed, it immediately restores itself. If the caster is felled or returned to a Poke Ball, the Arena Trap falls. 


Aroma Veil
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: The Moves Taunt, Torment, Encore, Disable, Heal Block, and Attract. Aroma Veil also protects the Pokemon’s adjacent allies.









Aura Break
Trigger
Effect: If the Abilities Dark Aura or Fairy Aura are activated, Dark Type Moves and Fairy Type Moves deal 2 less STAB instead of adding the bonus STAB as long as those Abilities are active.


B-

Bad Dreams
Static
Effect: Anything sleeping within 30-meters of the Pokemon with Bad Dreams lose 1/8th of their full HP at the beginning of each round.


Battle Armor
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Critical Hits


Big Pecks
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: The user cannot have its Defense Stat lowered. The user cannot have its Defense Combat Stages lowered. 


Blaze
Trigger 
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Fire


Bulletproof
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: The Moves Acid Spray, Aura Sphere, Barrage, Bullet Seed, Egg Bomb, Electro Ball, Energy Ball, Focus Blast, Gyro Ball, Ice Ball, Magnet Bomb, Mist Ball, Mud Bomb, Octazooka, Rock Wrecker, Seed Bomb, Shadow Ball, Sludge Bomb, Weather Ball, and Zap Cannon. 




C-

Cheek Pouch
Trigger - Hourly
Effect: When the Pokemon eats a Berry, they recover 15 HP in addition to anything else that the Berry would do. 


Chlorophyll
Trigger - Hourly
Effect: While in Sunny Weather, the Speed stat of the Pokemon is doubled. 


Clear Body
Static
Effect: The Pokemon’s Combat Stages may not be lowered by the effect of Abilities or Moves. Status effects may still alter their Combat Stages.


Cloud Nine
Cast – Hourly
Effect: Return the Weather of the field to Normal if the Pokemon with Cloud Nine is a higher level then the Pokemon who caused the weather effect.


Color Change
Trigger
Effect: Whenever the Pokemon is hit by a damage-dealing Move, the Pokemon with Color Change will have its Type changed to the same Type as that of the Move it was damaged by. 


Competitive
Static
Effect: Whenever the user has a Combat Stage lowered, by something other than its own Moves or Abilities, the user’s Special Attack is raised 2 Combat Stages for each Combat Stage it was lowered.  







Compound Eyes
Static
Effect: The user needs -3 to hit on any Accuracy Check.


Contrary 
Static
Effect: If something would raise the user’s Combat Stages, it instead lowers the user’s Combat Stages by the same amount. If something would lower the user’s Combat Stages, it instead raises the user’s Combat Stages by the same amount.


Cursed Body
Trigger - Hourly
Effect: When a foe hits the Pokemon with Cursed Body with a melee Move, that Move becomes Disabled after damaged is dealt.


Cute Charm
Trigger - Daily
Effect: When an opposite gendered foe attacks the Pokemon with Cute Charm, they become Infatuated after damaged is dealt.


D-

Damp 
Static
Effect: The Moves Selfdestruct and Explosion may not be used when a Pokemon with Damp is within 20-meters of Selfdestruct or Explosion’s user. The Ability Aftermath may not be activated when a Pokemon with Damp is within 20-meters of the Pokemon attempting to activate Aftermath.


Dark Art 
Trigger 
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Dark




Dark Aura
Cast – Hourly
Effect: For the remainder of the Encounter, Dark Type Moves with a Damage Dice Roll deal an additional 2 STAB. 


Defeatist
Trigger
Effect: When below 50% HP, this Pokemon’s Attack and Special Attack is set at -3 Combat Stages. It cannot be raised or lowered unless the user recovers HP above 50% HP.


Defiant
Static
Effect: Whenever the user has a Combat Stage lowered, by something other than its own Moves or Abilities, the user’s Attack is raised 2 Combat Stages for each Combat Stage it was lowered.  


Download 
Static
Effect: When the Pokemon with Download targets with a damage-dealing Move, the target must reveal which of its defenses are lower. When the Pokemon with Download attacks a foe, they are treated as if their Attack is raised 1 Combat Stage if the target’s Defense is lower then the target’s Special Defense. When the Pokemon with Download attacks a foe, they are treated as if their Special Attack is raised 1 Combat Stage if the target’s Special Defense is lower then the target’s Defense.


Drizzle 
Cast – Hourly
Keyword: Weather
Effect: As a Free Action, the Pokemon uses the Move Rain Dance. 







Drought 
Cast – Hourly
Keyword: Weather
Effect: As a Free Action, the Pokemon uses the Move Sunny Day. 


Dry Skin
Static
Effect: While in Sunny Weather, the user loses 1/8 of its full HP at the beginning of each round. While in Rainy Weather, the user gains 1/8 of its full HP at the beginning of each round. Fire Type Moves made towards the Pokemon with Dry Skin deal damage as if the offender is 1 Combat Stage higher in whichever Attack Stat the Move consults. Water Type Moves heal the Pokemon with Dry Skin by calculating damage as if Dry Skin’s user is resistant to Water Moves then healing that much HP instead of dealing damage.


E-

Early Bird
Static
Effect: When making Sleep Checks, the Sleep Check counter starts at 11.


Effect Spore 
Trigger
Effect: When hit by a melee Move, roll 1d20; on a result of 15-16, the attacker is Poisoned; on a result of 17-18, the attacker is Paralyzed; on a result of 19-20, the attacker falls Asleep.


F-

Fae Force
Trigger 
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Fairy




Fairy Aura
Cast - Hourly
Effect: For the remainder of the Encounter, Fairy Type Moves with a Damage Dice Roll deal an additional 2 STAB.


Filter 
Static
Effect: When the user is hit by a Super-Effective attack, the attack deals 1.5x damage instead of x2 damage. If the user is hit by a Super-Super-Effective attack, the attack deals x3 damage instead of x4 damage.


Flame Body 
Trigger - Daily
Effect: When a foe hits the Pokemon with Flame Body with a melee Move, they become Burned after damaged is dealt.


Flare Boost
Static
Effect: When Burned, the user’s Special Attack is raised by 2 Combat Stages. If the user is cured of its Burn, its Special Attack is lowered by 2 Combat Stages.


Flash Fire 
Static
Effect: The user does not take damage from Fire Type Moves and may not be Frozen. If the user is hit by a Fire Type Move, the user adds +1/2 STAB to the next Fire Type Move they use in the encounter. 


Flower Gift 
Trigger - Hourly
Keyword: Burst
Effect: If it is Sunny, Flower Gift creates a 4-meter Burst. The user and all of their allies in Sunny Weather have their Attack raised 2 Combat Stages and have their Special Defense raised 2 Combat Stages.


Flower Veil 
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Confusion, Infatuation. The Pokemon and its Grass Type allies cannot have their stats lowered and are also Immune to Confusion and Infatuation.  


Focus 
Trigger 
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Fighting


Forecast 
Trigger
Effect: The user’s Type changes depending on the Weather the Pokemon is in. It changes to Fire Type if it is Sunny, Ice Type if it is Hailing, Water Type if it is Rainy. It returns to Normal Type if it is any other condition. If there are multiple Weather Effects on the field, choose one type for the user to be that corresponds with an existing Weather Effect.


Forewarn 
Cast - Hourly
Effect: The Move with the highest Damage Dice Roll known by the targeted foe is revealed. If there is a tie, all tied Moves are revealed. The Moves revealed must roll +2 to hit during Accuracy Checks.


Freezing Point
Trigger 
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Ice











Friend Guard
Cast - Daily
Effect: For the rest of the encounter, any adjacent allied Pokemon who would be hit by any Moves that have a Damage Dice Roll of more than one die, including STAB or extra effects, the enemy does not include any STAB in their Damage Dice Roll(s).


Frisk
Cast - Hourly
Effect: The adjacent target reveals what item they are holding, if any.


Fur Coat
Static
Effect: The user halves the damage they would take from Moves that use the Attack stat after they apply weakness and resistance.


G-

Gale Wing
Cast - Hourly
Effect: The user may use a Flying Type Move as an Interrupt.  


Gather
Cast - Weekly
Effect: 1d2 Unown appear. They are not immediately hostile. 


Gluttony 
Trigger
Effect: When given a consumable item, the Pokemon immediately eats it. Any effects of the item are doubled.


Gooey
Trigger
Effect: When the user is hit by a Melee Move, the attacker’s Speed is lowered one Combat Stage.


Grass Terrain
Static
Effect: While on terrain covered in grass, the user’s Defense Stat is raised 2 Combat Stages.


Guts 
Trigger - Hourly
Effect: When Burned, Poisoned, Paralyzed, Frozen or put to Sleep, the user’s Attack is raised 2 Combat Stages. When a Pokemon loses the status, their Combat Stages are lowered what they raised.


H-

Harvest
Trigger - At-Will
Effect: Whenever the user eats a Berry, flip a coin. On heads, the user produces another berry of the exact same variety as a held item available for use next turn. On tails nothing happens. When in Sunny Weather, Harvest will always activate successfully. 


Haunt 
Trigger 
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Ghost


Healer
Cast - Hourly
Effect: One adjacent target suffering from at least one status affliction is instantly cured of all status afflictions. 


Heat Proof
Static
Effect: The user halves the damage they would take from Fire Type Moves after they apply weakness and resistance.






Heavy Metal
Static
Effect: When referring to Weight Classes, treat the Pokemon as if it is 2 Weight Classes higher. The Pokemon cannot be pushed. 


Honey Gather
Cast - Daily
Effect: The user finds Honey if they are not holding an item. If Honey Gather is activated during an encounter, the user cannot miss its next three Moves that target a wild foe.


Huge Power
Static
Effect:  The Pokemon’s base attack stat is doubled. This may double any bonuses from Nature or Vitamins, but not bonuses from Features.


Hustle
Static
Effect: The user’s Attack is raised 1 Combat Stages. The user must roll +2 during Accuracy Checks to hit with attack that consult the Attack stat.


Hydration
Trigger 
Effect: When in Rainy Weather, the user is healed of Paralysis, Burns, Poison, Freezing or Sleep.


Hyper Cutter
Static
Effect: The user’s Attack Combat Stages may not be lowered.










I-

Ice Body
Trigger
Effect: While in Hailing Weather, the user gains 1/16 of their full HP at the beginning of each of their turns. 


Illuminate 
Static
Effect: Moves that target the user must roll +2 to hit during Accuracy Check.


Illusion
Trigger - At-Will
Effect: Whenever you this Pokemon is sent out of its Poke Ball, you may choose another Pokemon that you have with you. The user now looks exactly like that Pokemon from your team until the user takes Damage as a result of a Move. This change is aesthetic and does not affect typing or Moves. You may dismiss Illusion whenever you want.


Immunity 
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Poisoning


Imposter
Cast - Daily
Effect: When Ditto is sent out, it may use the Move Transform as a free action. If the target of Transform has any modified Combat Stages, apply these Combat Stages to Ditto. One of the target’s Abilities is randomly assigned to Ditto until Ditto uses Transform again.


Infiltrator
Static
Effect: The user ignores Coats, Walls and Hazards. 


Inner Focus
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Flinching

Insomnia
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Sleep


Intimidate
Cast - Hourly
Effect: Lower one target’s Attack 1 Combat Stage.


Iron Barbs
Trigger
Effect: When hit by a Melee Ranged Move, the attacking foe loses 1/8 of their full HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance. Do not apply stats.


Iron Fist
Static
Effect: Bullet Punch, Comet Punch, Dizzy Punch, Drain Punch, Dynamic Punch, Fire Punch, Focus Punch, Hammer Arm, Ice Punch, Mach Punch, Mega Punch, Meteor Mash, Power-Up Punch, Shadow Punch, Sucker Punch, Sky Uppercut, and Thunder Punch deal an additional 2 STAB when the Pokemon with Iron Fist uses the Move as an attack.


J-

Justified
Trigger - At-Will
Effect: When hit by a damaging Dark Type Move, the user may raise its Attack 1 Combat Stage.


K-

Keen Eye 
Static
Effect: The Pokemon cannot have its Accuracy Checks negatively affected by anything except Defense, Special Defense or Speed stats.



Klutz
Static
Effect: The Pokemon with Klutz may drop held items, at-will, as a Free Action, even if they have Status Afflictions. The Pokemon may also hold an item, and ignore any effects the item has.


L-

Landslide
Trigger
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Ground


Last Chance
Trigger
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Normal


Leaf Guard
Trigger 
Effect: While in Sunny Weather, the user is healed of Paralysis, Burns, Poison, Freezing or Sleep.


Levitate
Static
Effect: The Pokemon is immune to Ground Type Moves.


Light Metal
Static
Effect: When referring to Weight Classes, treat the Pokemon as if it is 2 Weight Classes lower. The Pokemon’s Speed Capabilities are all increased by 3 and its Jump capability is increased by 1.











Lightningrod
Static
Effect: If any other Pokemon within 25-meters uses a Ranged Electric Type Move, the Move is drawn to the Pokemon with Lightning Rod without fail, and it cannot miss. This negates Lock-On or Mind Reader. This Pokemon is immune to damage and effects from Electric Moves, and each time they are hit by an Electric Move, the Pokemon’s Special Attack is raised 1 Combat Stage.


Limber 
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Paralysis


Liquid Ooze 
Trigger
Effect: When the Pokemon with Liquid Ooze is damaged or looses life as a result of Absorb, Drain Punch, Giga Drain, Horn Leech, Leech Life, Leech Seed or Mega Drain, the Pokemon using one of the above Moves lose life instead of gaining life as described per Move. Do not apply weakness or resistance. Do not apply stats.


M-

Mach Speed
Trigger
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Flying


Magician
Trigger
Effect: When the user hits an opponent that has a Held Item with a Ranged Move, the user takes that item if it is not holding any.








Magic Bounce
Trigger - Hourly
Effect: When the user is hit by a Melee - No Damage or Ranged - No Damage Move, it may reflect the Move back to the offender. This Ability may be used to change the placement of any Hazards being set within 10 meters of the user as well. 


Magic Guard
Static
Effect: Whenever the user would lose HP or take damage that isn’t a result of a Damage Dice Roll the user does not lose HP or take Damage. This includes, but is not limited to, Weather, Leech Seed, Afflictions, Traps, Recoil, etc.


Magma Armor
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Freezing


Magnet Pull
Cast - Hourly
Effect: Target Steel Type pokemon may not move more then 20-meters away from the user, or target Steel Type pokemon may not move closer then 20-meters to the user.


Marvel Scale
Static
Effect: When Asleep, Paralyzed, Burned, Frozen or Poisoned, Marvel Scale raises the user’s Special Defense 2 Combat Stages and raises the user’s Defense 2 Combat Stages. The Combat Stages return to normal if the user is cured of their status affliction.









Mega Launcher
Static
Effect: Aura Sphere, Dark Pulse, Dragon Pulse, Heal Pulse, or Water Pulse deal an additional 2 STAB when the Pokemon with Iron Fist uses the Move as an attack.


Mind Mold
Trigger
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Psychic


Minus
Static
Effect: When an ally with the Ability Plus is within 10 meters, they are treated as if their Special Attack is raised 2 Combat Stages. The ally with Plus can only have one Minus Ability applied to its Special Attack.


Mold Breaker
Cast - Hourly
Effect: The target’s Ability is disabled; it cannot be used until the end of the encounter.


Moody
Cast - Required on first turn of an Encounter.
Effect: Cast Moody again in 1d4+1 rounds. Roll 1d6; on 1, re-roll; on 2, raise the user’s Attack 2 Combat Stages; on 3, raise the user’s Defense 2 Combat Stages; on 4, raise the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages; on 5, raise the user’s Special Defense 2 Combat Stages; on 6, raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages. Then roll 1d6; on 1, re-roll; on 2, lower the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stages; on 3, lower the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stages; on 4, lower the user’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stages; on 5, lower the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stages; on 6, lower the user’s Speed 1 Combat Stages. 




Motor Drive
Static
Effect: The pokemon is immune to damage and the effects of Electric Type Moves. Whenever an Electric Type Move hits the pokemon, raise their Speed 1 Combat Stage. 


Mountain Peak
Trigger
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Rock


Moxie
Trigger
Effect: Whenever a user’s Move causes a target to faint, it may raise its Attack Combat Stage by 1.


Multiscale
Static
Effect: When taking damage from a Move while at full HP, half the total damage before applying weakness and resistance, before applying your Defenses.


Multitype
Cast - At Will
Effect: Arceus changes its Elemental Type to any of the Elemental Types. Multitype cannot be copied or disabled.


Mummy
Static
Effect: Whenever the user is a Legal Target of a Melee Range Move, the offender replaces all of its Abilities with Mummy for 1d6+2 rounds.


N-

Natural Cure
Cast - Hourly
Effect: The Pokemon is cured of Paralysis, Poisoning, Burns, Freezing and Sleep when returned to its Poke Ball.


No Guard 
Cast - At Will
Effect: Until the end of the Encounter. All Moves you perform cannot miss and all Moves that target you cannot miss. 


Normalize
Cast - At Will
Effect: Until the end of the Encounter. All Moves performed by the Pokemon are considered Normal Type instead of whatever Type they normally are.


O-

Oblivious
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Infatuation. The Move Taunt.


Overcharge
Trigger
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Electric


Overcoat
Static
Effect: The Pokemon does not take damage from any Weather that would normally cause it to take damage. The Pokemon is also immune to the Moves Cotton Spore, Poison Powder, Powder, Rage Powder, Sleep Powder, Spore, and Stun Spore.


Overgrow
Trigger
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Grass


Own Tempo
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Confusion




P-

Parental Bond
Static
Effect: When using a Move with a Damage Dice Roll, that does not have the scatter keyword, the user may immediately use the same Move against the same legal target or in the same spot, if using a Burst Move, unless any foes where lowered to 0HP or less. The second attack does not apply the Move’s Damage Dice Roll.


Pickpocket
Trigger - Daily
Effect: When the user hits an opponent that has a Held Item with a Melee Move, the user takes that item if it is not holding any.


Pickup 
Cast - Daily
Keyword: Pickup
Effect: You may use Pickup at the end of any encounter. Roll 1d20, consult the Pickup keyword to figure out what you find.


Pixilate
Static
Effect: The Pokemon’s Normal Type Moves are treated as Fairy Type Moves. Add 1 STAB when dealing damage with Pixilate.


Plus
Static
Effect: When an ally with the Ability Minus is within 10 meters, they are treated as if their Special Attack is raised 2 Combat Stages. The ally with Minus can only have one Plus Ability applied to its Special Attack.






Poison Heal
Static
Effect: When Poisoned or Badly Poisoned, the pokemon gains 1/8 of its full HP each turn instead of losing any HP. The pokemon does not have any Combat Stages lowered as a result of being Poisoned.


Poison Point
Trigger - Daily
Effect: When hit by a melee Move, the Pokemon who attacked Poison Point’s user is Poisoned.


Poison Touch
Static
Effect: The Pokemon’s Moves with a Damage Dice Roll that use the Attack Stat, Poison Legal Targets on 15-20. If the Move already Poisons on a different Accuracy Check, replace it with 15-20.


Prankster
Cast - Daily
Effect: For the remainder of the encounter, any Ranged - No Damage, Melee - No Damage, Self - No Damage or Field - No Damage Moves the user knows gain the keyword Interrupt. Prankster may not be used with Moves that set a Legal Target’s HP to 0.


Pressure
Cast - Daily
Effect: When this Ability is activated, all enemies have their Moves set to their original frequency if they were able to be used more frequently. In addition, 
At-Will moves are now EOT.









Protean
Cast - Hourly
Effect: For the remainder of the Encounter, whenever the Pokemon uses a Move, it immediately changes its Type to match the Move it’s using, before damage.


Pure Blooded
Trigger
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Dragon


Pure Power
Static
Effect:  The Pokemon’s base Attack Stat is doubled. This may double any bonuses from Nature or Vitamins, but not bonuses from Features.


Q-

Quick Feet
Static
Effect: When Poisoned, Burned, Frozen or put to Sleep, the user’s Speed is raised 2 Combat Stages. When Paralyzed, the user’s Speed is raised 4 Combat Stages. When a Pokemon loses the status, their Combat Stages are lowered what they raised.


R-

Rain Dish
Trigger
Effect: While in Rainy Weather, the user gains 1/16 of their full HP at the beginning of each of their turns. 


Rattled
Trigger
Effect: When hit by Bug, Dark, or Ghost Type Move, the user may raise its Speed 1 Combat Stage. 




Reckless
Static
Effect: Submission, Double-Edge, Take Down, Jump Kick, High Jump Kick, Volt Tackle, Wood Hammer, Flare Blitz, Brave Bird and Head Smash deal an additional 2 STAB when the Pokemon with Reckless uses the Move as an attack.


Refrigerate
Static
Effect: The Pokemon’s Normal Type Moves are treated as Ice Type Moves. Add 1 STAB when dealing damage with Refrigerate.


Regenerator
Cast - Hourly
Effect: The user instantly heals 1/4th of its max HP. 


Rivalry
Static
Effect: When battling a same gendered foe, the user may raise their Attack 2 Combat stages.  Rivalry may only be only applied once per Encounter.


Rock Head
Static
Effect: When the Pokemon uses Volt Tackle, Wood Hammer, Submission, Take Down, Brave Bird, Double-Edge, Flare Blitz, Head Smash, Jump Kick or High Jump Kick they do not lose any HP as a result of the Move’s effect.


Rough Skin
Static
Effect: When hit by a Melee Ranged Move, the attacking foe loses 1/8 of their full HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance. Do not apply stats.





Run Away
Static
Effect: The user cannot be Trapped. The user’s Speed Combat Stages cannot be lowered below 0. The user’s Speed Capabilities are +2.


S-

Sand Force
Trigger - Daily
Effect: While in Sandstorming Weather, the user may activate Sand Force until the end of an encounter. While active, Sand Force makes the user immune to damage from Sandstorms and the user deals an additional +1 STAB with Rock, Steel and Ground Moves regardless of the user’s Type.


Sand Rush
Trigger - Daily
Effect: While in Sandstorming Weather, the user may activate Sand Rush until the end of an encounter. While active, Sand Rush makes the user immune to damage from Sandstorms and its Speed stat is raised 4 Combat Stages. Do not add extra evasion to the user rasiing Combat Stages.  


Sand Stream
Cast - Daily
Keyword: Weather
Effect: As a Free Action, the Pokemon uses the Move Sandstorm. 














Sand Veil
Cast - Hourly
Keyword: Sustain
Effect: Sand Veil may only be activated while in Sandstorming Weather. The Pokemon creates a pocket of Clear Weather around itself and any other targets it wants to that is less then 15-meters away within the Sandstorm. These are Sand Bubbles. Any Move that tries to target into a Sand Bubble must roll +2 to hit during Accuracy Check. To Sustain, the Pokemon must remain out of a Poke Ball and must be above 0 HP.


Sap Sipper
Static
Effect: The user does not take damage from Grass Type Moves. If a Grass Type Move hits the user, the user may raise its Attack 1 Combat Stage up to once per turn.


Scrappy
Static
Effect: Moves the Pokemon uses against Ghost Type foes can always hit them. Do not apply extra weaknesses or resistances. Do not apply Immunities. Count Moves those Ghost Type foes would usually be Immune to as Neutral Damaging Moves.


Serene Grace
Static
Effect: When a Move’s effect has something that activates during Accuracy Check, but only if you roll high enough, all of those checks’ requirements to activate are reduced by 3. This does not apply to Critical Hits.


Shadow Tag
Cast - Daily
Effect: Once adjacent to the target, they are Trapped. They may still Shift, but cannot Shift more then 20-meters from Shadow Tag’s user.



Shed Skin
Cast - Hourly
Effect: The Pokemon is cured of Paralysis, Freezing, Burns, Poison, and Sleep.


Sheer Force
Cast - Daily
Effect: Once used, Sheer Force is in effect until the end of the Encounter. Whenever you use a move that has a secondary effect, which activates during Accuracy Check, that effect is ignored. If an effect has been ignored, that attack now deals an additional 2 STAB.


Shell Armor
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Critical Hits


Shield Dust
Static
Effect: The effects of damage dealing Moves that target the Pokemon with Shield Dust are disabled. 


Simple
Static
Effect: When the Pokemon’s Combat Stages are altered, double the amount of Combat Stages they are raised or lowered.


Skill Link
Static
Effect: The Pokemon’s Moves with the keyword Scatter can be used for their maximum amounts of time, even if one of the first attempts misses.


Slow Start
Static
Effect: For 3 rounds, the Pokemon’s Speed and Attack Stats are halved.




Sniper 
Static
Effect: When the Pokemon gets a Critical Hit, add an additional Damage Dice Roll. This includes any base damage in the Damage Dice Roll.


Snow Cloak 
Cast - Hourly
Keyword: Sustain
Effect: Snow Cloak may only be activated while in Hailing Weather. The Pokemon creates a pocket of Clear Weather around itself and any other targets it wants to that is less then 15-meters away within the Hail. These are Snow Bubbles. Any Move that tries to target into a Snow Bubble must roll +2 to hit during Accuracy Check. To Sustain, the Pokemon must remain out of a Poke Ball and must be above 0 HP.


Snow Warning
Cast - Hourly
Keyword: Weather
Effect: As a Free Action, the Pokemon uses the Move Hail.


Solar Power
Trigger 
Effect: While in Sunny Weather, the Pokemon loses 1/8 of its full HP on its turn. When Sunny, its Special Attack Stat is increased by 2 Combat Stages.


Solid Rock
Static
Effect: Super Effective Moves that target the Pokemon are only regularly effective and Super Super Effective Moves that target the Pokemon are only Super Effective.








Soundproof
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: The Moves Boomburst, Bug Buzz, Chatter, Confide, Echoed Voice, Disarming Voice, Echoed Voice, Grass Whistle, Growl, Heal Bell, Hyper Voice, Metal Sound, Noble Roar, Parting Shot, Perish Song, Relic Song, Roar, Roar of Time, Round, Screech, Sing, Snarl, Snore, Supersonic, and Uproar.


Speed Boost
Cast - Hourly
Effect: For the remainder of the Encounter, the Pokemon’s Speed is raised 1 Combat Stage on each of its turns.


Static 
Trigger - Daily
Effect: When a foe hits the Pokemon with Static with a melee Move, they become Paralyzed after damage is dealt.


Stall
Static
Effect: In a round’s queue, a Pokemon with Stall is always last. If a Pokemon goes to the end of the queue, the Pokemon with Stall is still the last to move. 


Stance Change
Static
Effect: When Aegislash uses a Move with a Damage Dice Roll switch its Defense and Special Defense stats with its Attack and Special Attack stats respectively. When it uses an Intercept Move, return its stats to normal.







Steadfast
Trigger
Effect: When Flinched, the Pokemon’s Speed is raised 1 Combat Stage.


Stench
Static
Effect: The Pokemon’s Moves which deal damage Flinch Legal Targets on 19-20. If a move already has a chance of Flinching foes, Stench lowers the number needed to roll in order to Flinch by -2.


Sticky Hold
Static
Effect: The Pokemon’s held items cannot be stolen, switched, destroyed or dropped.


Storm Drain
Static
Effect: If any other Pokemon within 25-meters uses a Ranged Water Type Move, the Move is drawn to the Pokemon with Storm Drain without fail, and it cannot miss. This negates Lock-On or Mind Reader. This Pokemon is immune to damage and effects from Water Moves, and each time they are hit by an Water Move, the Pokemon’s Special Attack is raised 1 Combat Stage.


Strong Jaw
Static
Effect: Bite, Bug Bite, Crunch, Fire Fang, Ice Fang, Poison Fang, and Thunder Fang deal an additional 1 STAB when the Pokemon with Strong Jaw uses the Move as an attack.









Sturdy
Static
Effect: The Pokemon is immune to the Moves Sheer Cold, Guillotine, Horn Drill and Fissure. If any attack would lower this Pokemon to 0 HP or less from full HP, instead the Pokemon’s HP is set to 1.


Suction Cups
Static
Effect: The Pokemon is immune to the Moves Roar and Whirlwind. The Pokemon is immune to Push effects.


Super Luck
Static
Effect: The Pokemon’s Moves are Critical Hits on 18-20. If a Move already has an extended Critical Hit range, Super Luck extends that range by -2. 


Swarm
Trigger
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Bug


Sweet Veil
Static
Keyword: Immune
Effect: Sleep. Adjacent allies are Immune to Sleep as well. 


Swift Swim 
Trigger - Hourly
Effect: While in Rainy Weather, the Speed stat of the Pokemon is raised 4 Combat Stages. 


Symbiosis
Cast - At-Will
Effect: The user gives its Held Item to an Adjacent target without a Held Item.





Synchronize
Trigger - Hourly
Effect: When a foe Paralyzes, Freezes, Burns, Poisons, or puts the pokemon with Synchronize to Sleep, the foe is given the same Status effect they inflicted.


T-

Tangled Feet
Trigger
Effect: While Confused, the Pokemon’s foes must roll +3 during Accuracy Check to hit the pokemon with Tangled Feet.


Technician
Static
Effect:  Moves with the Damage Dice Rolls whose Max Damage are less than 30 add an additional 2d10 to their Damage Dice Roll. Technician may only be applied once when used with a Move that has Scatter.


Telepathy
Static
Effect: Whenever the Pokemon is a Legal Target, if the offender whose Move is hitting the Pokemon does not want the Pokemon to be considered a Legal Target; it is not. 


Teravolt
Cast - Hourly
Effect: The Target’s Abilities are Disabled.  They cannot be used until the end of the encounter.


Thick Fat
Static
Effect: The Pokemon is treated as if they are Resistant to Fire Type Moves and Ice Type Moves.






Tinted Lens
Static
Effect: The user’s Resisted Moves instead deal Neutral Damage. The user’s Doubly Resisted Moves are instead Resisted.


Torrent
Trigger
Keyword: Last Chance
Effect: Water


Tough Claws
Static
Effect: The user deals an additional 15 damage when using Melee ranged Moves.


Toxic Boost
Static
Effect: When Poisoned or Badly Poisoned, the user’s Attack is raised by 2 Combat Stages. If the user is cured of its Poisoning, its Attack stat is lowered by 2 Combat Stages.


Trace
Cast - Hourly
Keyword: Sustain
Effect: The Pokemon gains the Ability of a target within 10-meters of the Pokemon with Trace. To sustain, the Pokemon must remain out of a Poke Ball and above 0 HP.


Truant
Static
Effect: Roll 1d20 when a Pokemon with Truant tries to Shift and/or use a Move; on 1-8, the Pokemon does nothing; on 9-20, the Pokemon uses its turn normally.


Turboblaze
Cast - Hourly
Effect: The Target’s Abilities are Disabled.  They cannot be used until the end of the encounter.


U-

Unaware 
Static
Effect: When the pokemon is attacking or being attacked, it ignores all Combat Stages on the relevant target or attacker


Unbreakable
Trigger
Keywords: Last Chance
Effect: Steel


Unburden
Trigger
Effect: After consuming a held item, the Pokemon’s Speed is raised 2 Combat Stages.


Unnerve
Static
Effect: During battle, as long as you have a line of sight to a foe, that foe may not eat or drink anything. This includes berries, vitamins, or anything else that must be eaten to affect the foe.


V-

Venom 
Trigger
Keywords: Last Chance
Effect: Poison


Victory Star
Static
Effect: Any allied Pokemon in the encounter will require -2 to hit during any Accuracy Check.


Vital Spirit
Static
Keywords: Immune
Effect: Sleep





Volt Absorb
Trigger
Effect: After calculating damage that would be dealt from an Electric Type Move that hit the Pokemon, heal the Pokemon half of what it would have been dealt, instead of damaging the Pokemon. Do this before applying Defense but after applying weakness and resistance.


W-

Water Absorb
Trigger
Effect: After calculating damage that would be dealt from an Water Type Move that hit the Pokemon, heal the Pokemon half of what it would have been dealt instead of damaging the Pokemon. Do this before applying Defense but after applying weakness and resistance.


Water Veil
Static
Keywords: Immune
Effect: Burns


Weak Armor
Trigger
Effect: Whenever the user is hit by an attack that consults the user’s Defense stat, the user may lower its Defense Combat Stage one level in order to raise its Speed Combat Stage one level. 


White Smoke
Static
Effect: The user’s Combat Stages may not be lowered.











Wonder Guard
Static
Effect: Only damaging Moves that are Super-Effective hit the Pokemon with Wonder Guard, all other moves always deal 0 damage. Wonder Guard does not work if the Pokemon who has it has no weaknesses. Only Shedinja and Arceus may ever have the ability Wonder Guard. Wonder Guard loses its effect if the user has no weaknesses.


Wonder Skin
Static
Effect: Whenever a Ranged - No Damage or Melee - No Damage move that causes Paralysis, Poisoning, Bad Poisoning, a Burn, Sleep, Confusion, Attraction, Disable, or any other major or minor status affliction is used against this Pokemon and the Move successfully hits, flip a coin. On heads, this Pokemon ignores the affliction it would have received; on tails the Pokemon is hit as usual. 



Z-

Zen Mode
Cast - At-Will
Effect: Keep two sets of Base Stats for Darmanitan, the first set of Base Stats are its normal stats while the second will be referred to during Zen Mode. The HP Stat for both sets of Base Stats must be the same. If Darmanitan has its Base Stats altered in any way, both sets of Base Stats are affected. As a free action, Darmanitan may activate Zen Mode if it is at less than 50% of its full HP. Darmanitan may change back from Zen Mode as a free action. Darmanitan may switch from one form to another once per encounter.





Pokemon Moves


	A Move is anything a pokemon can do on its turn after shifting on the battlefield. Once a pokemon uses a Move, they end their turn. A Move has a Name, a Type, a Frequency, an Accuracy Check, a Range, a Damage Dice Roll, an Area of Effect, and an Effect. A Pokemon may have up to eight Moves. Four natural Moves, Breeding Moves and Level Up Moves; and four Technical Moves, Tutor TM and HM Moves..

It’s ordered as such:
Move Name - Move Type   (color varies based on Move Type)
Damage Dice Roll - Frequency - Accuracy Check (color varies based on Move Frequency)
Stat Used for Move - Range of Move (Number of Spaces/Meters of Range if it is not Melee)
Effect: Number of Targets/Area of Effect, Additional Move Keywords
Effect
Contest Type - Performance Dice Roll - Contest Keyword (color varies based on Contest Type)

*Capabilities Granted

	The Name of the Move is what you use to keep track of what your attack is, list the Names of your Moves on your pokemon’s attack list.
	The Type is one of the elemental types of attacks in the pokemon world. There is Bug, Dark, Dragon, Electric, Fighting, Fire, Flying, Ghost, Grass, Ground, Ice, Normal, Psychic, Rock, Steel and Water.
	Damage Dice Roll lists what dice to roll for additional damage if the Move deals damage. The Damage Dice Roll includes any ‘base’ value (the “10” in 1d8+10). If there is no Damage Dice Roll, the Move isn’t an attack that deals damage or the Move deals a set amount of damage detailed in the Effect.











	The Frequency is the rate of use. There is four levels of Frequency for attacks. At-Will means your pokemon can perform the attack as often as it’d like, with no rest needed to perform the attack again. EOT is an abbreviation for Every Other Turn, and it means your pokemon can perform the move once every other turn. If your pokemon would like to use a move with the EOT frequency outside of battle, it would need six of rest before performing the move again. The Battle Frequency means that your pokemon can only perform the move once per Battle. The Battle move exerts so much power that your pokemon needs a rest about five minutes long before they can perform such a straining move again. The final Frequency is Center. Center moves require intense focus and strain on your pokemon’s mental and physical state of being. A move with the Center Frequency can only be performed once per Pokemon Center visit. A pokemon may not perform that move again until they have been healed or rested at a pokemon center.

	The Accuracy Check is used when a pokemon uses a Move as an Attack. You need to roll a d20 equal to or higher then the Accuracy Check in order for the Attack to connect to your target. There is several ways for the Accuracy Check to be modified so be aware of these modifiers, as they may be able to increase your likelihood of a successful attack or conversely hinder your success. If there is no Accuracy Check, the Move never misses. If you roll a 1 during the check, it is a critical miss and the move fails to hit unless an effect says otherwise. If you roll a 20 during the check, it is a Critical Hit add the Damage Dice Roll an additional time, including any base amount in the damage.
   




























	The Stat which will be added to your Damage Dice Roll is either Attack or Special Attack. It is mentioned right before...

	Range is used to let you know if your Move is to be used as an Attack while next to your foe or from a distance. These are sorted into Self, Melee, Ranged and Field. A Move with the Self Range targets the pokemon using the Move. The Melee Range is used to target foes or allies adjacent to you, and you may also target the pokemon using the Move with a Melee ranged attack. The Ranged Range targets foes or allies that are not adjacent to the pokemon using the Move. The range of the Ranged attacks are specified in the parenthesis, use them as spaces or meters, whatever your campaign uses. The Field Range drops an effect on the entire area where the battle is taking place. 

	The Target/Keyword line is next to the Effect. It defines what target or targets can be targeted, while showing Keywords, which help to condense the Effect area.

	The Effect lists what the attack does in addition to the Move’s damage. Within the Effect description, an Area of Effect is detailed to show if the attack hits more then one target. The Effect also lists any status effects the Move may have caused during the Accuracy Check. The Effect also will list requirements to make the attack, knock back caused by the Move and anything else related to what the Move does. Effects do not activate unless the Move hits.


Keywords




Berry – A Move with the Berry keyword, is Natural Gift. Depending on the berry held, Natural Gift 		does different damage and has a different elemental Type. 
Berry	Damage Dice Roll	Type		Berry		Damage Dice Roll	Type
Cheri	1d10+10		Fire		Watmel	2d12+15		Fire
Chesto 1d10+10		Water		Durin		2d12+15		Water
Pecha	1d10+10		Electric	Belue		2d12+15		Electric
Rawst	1d10+10		Grass		Occa		1d10+10		Fire
Aspear	1d10+10		Ice		Passho		1d10+10		Water
Leppa	1d10+10		Fighting	Wacan		1d10+10		Electric
Oran	1d10+10		Poison		Rindo		1d10+10		Grass
Persim	1d10+10		Ground	Yache		1d10+10		Ice
Lum	1d10+10		Flying		Chople		1d10+10	Fighting
Sitrus	1d10+10		Psychic	Kebia		1d10+10		Poison
Figy	1d10+10		Bug		Shuca		1d10+10	Ground
Wiki	1d10+10		Rock		Coba		1d10+10		Flying
Mago	1d10+10		Ghost		Payapa	1d10+10Psychic
Aguav	1d10+10		Dragon	Tanga		1d10+10		Bug
Iapapa	1d10+10		Dark		Charti		1d10+10		Rock
Razz	1d10+10		Steel		Kasib		1d10+10		Ghost
Bluk	1d12+15		Fire		Haban		1d10+10		Dragon
Nanab	1d12+15		Water		Coulbur	1d10+10		Dark
Wepear1d12+15		Electric	Babiri		1d10+10		Steel
Pinap	1d12+15		Grass		Chilan		1d10+10		Normal
Pomeg	1d12+15		Ice		Liechi		2d12+15		Grass
Kelpsy1d12+15		Fighting	Ganlon		2d12+15		Ice
Qualot	1d12+15		Poison		Salac		2d12+15	Fighting
Hondeew1d12+15		Ground	Petaya		2d12+15		Poison
Grepa	1d12+15		Flying		Apicot		2d12+15	Ground
Tamato1d12+15		Psychic	Lansat		2d12+15		Flying
Cornn	1d12+15		Bug		Starf		2d12+15	Psychic
Magost1d12+15		Rock		Enigma	2d12+15		Bug
Rabuta	1d12+15		Ghost		Micle		2d12+15		Rock
Nomel	1d12+15		Dragon	Cutsap		2d12+15		Ghost
Spelon	1d12+15		Dark		Jaboca		2d12+15		Dragon
Pamtre	1d12+15		Steel		Rowap		2d12+15		Dark
Roseli	1d10+10		Fairy		Kee		2d12+15		Fairy
Magost2d12+15		Normal	

Blast – A Move with the Blast Keyword can hit multiple targets. The size of the Blast is usually specified in the Effect of the Move. To find the area affected by the move, draw a radius equal to the length specified per Move. Draw a circumference surrounding the target that has an equal radius throughout the circle. All Legal Targets within the drawn area is hit by the Move with the Blast keyword.

Blocking Terrain – If an object that your pokemon cannot see through is between itself and a desired target, it is Blocking Terrain. You may not attack a target behind Blocking Terrain. Some blocking terrain can be seen through, that does not make it Hindering Terrain.


Burst – A Move with the Burst keyword can hit multiple targets. The length of the radius for the Burst is usually specified in the Effect of the Move. To find the area affected by the move, draw a radius equal to the length specified per Move. Draw a circumference surrounding the user that has an equal radius throughout the circle. All Legal Targets within the drawn area is hit by the Move with the Burst keyword.

Coat – A Move with the keyword Coat covers the target in a layer of material, which has various effects. If a Coat makes the user Resist a type, treat it as if the user is one step more Resistant to that type. Regardless of effect, you may not benefit from more than one application of the same Coat.

Column – A Move with the Column keyword can hit multiple targets. The size of the Column is usually specified in the Effect of the Move. To find the area affected by the Move, draw a line from the user to the target, and then create a rectangle centered on that line using the width specified in the Move. If the Range allows, Column Moves continue through the target up to 2 more meters. All Legal Targets within the drawn area are hit by the Move with the Column keyword.

Combat Stages – During battle, the stats of a Pokemon can be altered to buff or debuff a pokemon, making them more formidable or less threatening. During battle, any stat can only be only be risen or lowered up to six times positively or six times negatively. This makes a scale, from -6 to +6 that can be altered as many times as the battle allows but never more then +6 Combat Stages or less than -6 Combat Stages. If a pokemon’s stat is raised a Combat Stage during battle, they gain a 25% bonus the buffed stat, rounded down. If a pokemon’s stat is lowered one Combat Stage during battle, they lose 12.5% of the affected stat rounded up. This means that if a stat has raised 6 Combat Stages; its affected stat should be 250% of its original value. If a stat has been lowered 6 Combat Stages, its affected stat should be 25% of its original value. For every 2 Combat Stages the Speed stat is raised, the Pokemon’s Speed Capabilities are raised 1 value. For every 3 Combat Stages the Speed stat is lowered, the Pokemon’s Speed Capabilities are lowered 1 value. Speed Capabilities may not be lowered below 1. 

Dash – A Move with the Dash keyword can only be used if the Move’s user has moved towards its target before choosing a target. You may move away from the target and then move back towards the target in the same turn to make them a Legal Target as long as you have the appropriate Speed to allow for the movement.




















Environ – A Move with the Environ keyword look at the chart below to see what they use for their move.
Area		Nature Power Attack		Secret Power Effect
Building	Swift				Paralysis
Cave		Shadow Ball			Flinch
Rocky		Rock Slide			Confusion
Sandy		Sand-Attack			+2 needed during Accuracy Check
Grassy		Stun Spore			Poison
Thick Brush	Razor Leaf			Sleep
Water		Surf				Lowers Speed 1 Combat Stage
Underwater	Hydro Pump			Lowers Attack 1 Combat Stage
Snowy		Blizzard			Freeze
Forest		Magical Leaf			Lowers Defense 1 Combat Stage
Volcanic	Heat Wave			Burn
Sky		Whirlwind			Lowers Special Attack 1 Combat Stage
Beach 		Muddy Water			Lowers Special Defense 1 Combat Stage

Exhaust – If a Move has the Exhaust keyword, the user may not do anything on their next turn. The user may still be a target of Moves or be returned.

Hazard – If a Move has the Hazard keyword, the effect covers a portion of the field of battle. A Hazard only affects the foes under certain circumstances. You may put extra Layers of the Move with Hazard if the Move allows.

Hindering Terrain – If an object that you can see through or around is between your pokemon and its target, there is Hindering Terrain. For each piece of Hindering Terrain, you must roll 1 higher during Accuracy Check. 

Intercept – A Move with the Intercept keyword can be declared on the foe’s turn. Moves with Intercept each have different situations where it can be used. If no specific means are mentioned, you may use the Intercept Move at any time (on the Pokemon’s turn or to Intercept another Pokemon’s turn). Once those circumstances show up, you may declare the Intercept Move and use it. Intercept Moves can be used out of turn as a Free Action, however once you perform an Intercept you may not perform additional Moves during that round of Combat. 

Interrupt – A Move with the Interrupt keyword can be declared on the foe’s turn. Moves with Interrupt each have different situations where it can be used. If no specific means are mentioned, you may use the Interrupt Move at any time (on the Pokemon’s turn or to Intercept another Pokemon’s turn). Once those circumstances show up, you may declare the Interrupt Move and use it. When you use an Interrupt Move out of turn, you forfeit your next turn. You may not Interrupt an Intercept Move except with Feint. You may not declare the use of an Interrupt, in response to someone using an Interrupt after you’ve declared the use of your non-Interrupt Move. However, if you are using a Move that is an Interrupt Move when you are being attacked by an Interrupt Move, the offender may not Interrupt you if your Speed stat exceeds theirs.

Legal Target – All pokemon and people, friend and foe alike, in an area that has an unblocked line of sight. 

On Miss – If a Move’s effect says On Miss, the effect detailed happens and makes everything within its range a Legal Target for the Move. 


Pass – A Move with the Pass keyword moves through the target. The Move’s user must move before it hits a target and continues through the target, ending their movement on the side opposite of the side of the target they attacked. If the Pokemon’s capabilities allow it the Pokemon may keep shifting, Passing through as many targets as you’d like and attacking each one. Each additional target attacked during the Pass Move, the Accuracy Check is increased by 2. The user must be at least 1-meters away from its last target after their turn ends. 
    
Push – A Move with the Push keyword moves the target on hit. The distance the target is Pushed is usually specified in the Effect of the Move. The target is moved in the direction opposite of the Move’s user. If taking damage from being Pushed, do not reduce the damage with Defense or Special Defense stats and do not apply weaknesses or resistances.
    
Recoil – When A Move says to Recoil, total the amount of damage the target took from your attack, ignoring additional Damage from status afflictions or Push damage, then divide by the number paired with the Keyword Recoil. The Move’s user loses HP equal to that dividend, ignoring stats weaknesses and resistances.
    
Scatter – A Move with the Scatter keyword can hit multiple targets. The amount of times you may target with the Move is usually specified in the Effect of the Move. Each time you attack, you may target a different Legal Target. After calculating total damage from hits, apply the appropriate Attack stat once to each target, then each target applies their appropriate Defense stat.  
    
Set Up – A ‘Set Up’ Move are extended Moves that take up multiple turns or fail to be used. When a Trainer commands a Pokemon to use a Move with the Set Up Keyword, the Pokemon’s turn usually ends. If the Trainer does not tell the same Pokemon to use the Set Up Move during the next round, the Pokemon cancels its use of that Move and the Pokemon may perform a different Move if commanded to do so.
    
Spirit Surge – A Move with the Spirit Surge keyword will always have its Effect activate. A Move with the Spirit Surge keyword still needs to successfully hit a Legal Target to deal damage, but will still gain its effect’s benefits. Moves with the Spirit Surge keyword usually cause buffs or debuffs to Combat Stages. 
    
Target Area – A Move that says Target Area does not target a person or a pokemon. Instead, target a particular spot on the field. 
    
Trap – A Move with the Trap keyword prevents the target from fleeing. A Trapped target may not flee, and may not be recalled. A Trapped target may not move from the spot they were Trapped in. If the user of the Move with the Trap keyword faints, flees, or is recalled the Trapped target is freed. 
    
Wall – A Move with the keyword Wall can place Wall terrain of the field of battle. The amount of Wall is specified per Move. The Move will give a length of Wall, which can be separated at 1-meter intervals. The height of the Wall, unless specified otherwise, is 2-meters. You may stack Walls to make tall shields, or cut width in many 1-meter intervals to make several Walls all over the field. Walls are only a few inches thick, unless the Move specifies otherwise. At the end of an encounter, Walls fade after a few minutes. All walls can be Shifted through or have ranged attacks aimed through; however this may affect Shift or Accuracy. 
    
Weather – Move with the Weather keyword affects an area, changing the rules of the battle. Damage can be altered and even the Effects of moves can change depending on the Weather in battle. Weather can replace Weather that already is in place. If a Weather effect does not replace Weather effects, it is Lesser Weather and it cannot be replaced.

Move List Colors

Frequencies - 
At-Will
Every Other Turn (EOT)
Battle
Center


Move Types - 
Bug
Dark
Dragon
Electric
Fairy
Fighting
Fire
Flying
Ghost
Grass
Ground
Ice
Normal
Poison
Psychic
Rock
Steel 
Water


Contest Types -
Beauty
Cool
Cute
Smart
Tough


Bug Moves
Attack Order - Bug
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Attack Order is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives


Bug Bite - Bug
2d10+8 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the target has a consumable Held Item, Bug Bite destroys the Item and Bug Bite’s user may use the Item’s effect. 
Tough - None - Attention Grabber


Bug Buzz - Bug
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Bug Buzz creates a 3-meter Burst. Bug Buzz lowers the target’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cute - 2d4 - Incentives 


Defend Order - Bug
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage.  
Smart - None - Get Ready! 







Fell Stinger - Bug
1d10+4 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the user lowers a target to 0 HP or less while using Fell Stinger, raise the user’s Attack 2 Combat Stages.  
Smart - None - Get Ready! 


Fury Cutter - Bug
1d4 - At-Will - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If Fury Cutter is used successfully and consecutively on the same target, use 1d12+6 on the second hit instead, 2d12+12 on the third hit instead, 3d12+18 on the fourth hit instead and 4d12+24 on the fifth hit and any successful hits following the fifth hit instead.
Cool - 2d4 - Reliable


Heal Order - Bug
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user regains HP equal to half of its full HP.
Smart - None - Reflective Appeal


Infestation - Bug
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (3)
Effect: 1 Target
The target gains the Coat, Infested. Infested Pokemon lose 1/8th of their full HP at the beginning of each of their turns for 5 rounds. Do not apply weakness, resistance or stats to the lost HP. Infested Pokemon are Trapped and cannot move more than 3 meters from the user.
Smart - None - Torrential Appeal


Leech Life - Bug
1d6+1 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
After the target takes damage, the user gains HP equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 


Megahorn - Bug
5d12+18 - Battle - 5
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
The target is Pushed 3-meters. The target takes an additional 1d6 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Pin Missile - Bug
1d6+1 - EOT - 4
Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Pin Missile can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Pin Missile attack on that turn. 
Cool - 2d4 - Reliable 


Powder - Bug
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target, Coat
The target receives a Powder Coat. If the target uses a Fire-Type Move, the Coat is destroyed and they lose 1/4th of their max HP.
Smart - 2d4 - Scrambler 









Quiver Dance - Bug
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage, raise the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Speed 1 Combat Stage.
Cool - None - Get Ready! 


Rage Powder - Bug
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: No Target, Column, Intercept
Rage Powder creates a Column 1 meter wide. All legal targets may only target the user when using a Move until the user is knocked out or switched out. This Effect lasts for one round of combat.
Smart - 2d4 - Scrambler 


Signal Beam - Bug
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Signal Beam creates a Column 1 meter wide. Signal Beam confuses the target and any Legal Targets on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - None - Incentives 


Silver Wind - Bug
2d10+8 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Spirit Surge
Silver Wind creates a Column that is 2-meters wide. If you rolled 11-20 during Accuracy Check for Silver Wind, the user has each of its stats raised 1 Combat Stage. If you rolled 16-20 on the Accuracy Roll, all allies in the Column also have each of their stats raised 1 Combat Stage and are not damaged by Silver Wind.
Beauty - 2d4 - Incentives 



Spider Web - Bug
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target, Trap
Spider Web cannot miss.
Smart - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

*Grants: Threaded

Steamroller - Bug
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Steamroller Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check. If the target is Small, Steamroller deals an additional 1d10.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Sticky Web - Bug
EOT - None
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: No Target, Hazard
Set 10 square meters of Sticky Web, all 10 meters must be adjacent with at least one other space of Sticky Web next to each other. Sticky Web cause all foes to have their Speed Combat Stage lowered 1 when moving onto or over the occupied spaces with an Overland Capability. A foe can only lose 1 Combat Stage per turn this way.
Smart - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

*Grants: Threaded

String Shot - Bug
At-Will - 3
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
String Shot creates a Column 2-meters wide. All Legal Targets within the Column lower their Speed 1 Combat Stage. If a target is hit by String Shot 5 times within 5 rounds of combat, they are Trapped. If a target’s Speed Combat Stage has already been lowered 6 times, String Shot Traps them.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 

*Grants: Threaded
Struggle Bug - Bug
1d10+4 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Struggle Bug creates a Column 1 meter wide. Struggle Bug lowers all Legal Targets Special Attack 1 Combat Stage.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement


Tail Glow - Bug
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Special Attack 3 Combat Stages.
Beauty - None - Get Ready!

*Grants: Glow

Twineedle - Bug
1d8+3 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Twineedle can hit up to 2 times. If Twineedle misses its first target, you may still use it a second time. If you rolled an 18-20 on either Accuracy Check, the target is Poisoned.
Cool - 2d4 - Reliable 


U-Turn - Bug
3d8+10 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
If U-Turn successfully hits its target, the user deals damage and then immediately is returned to its Poke Ball in the same turn. A New Pokemon may immediately be sent out.
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal 








X-Scissor - Bug
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter


Dark Moves
Assurance - Dark
2d8+6 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If Assurance’s target has already been damaged by a Move on the same round Assurance is being used, use 4d12+16 instead for Assurance’s Damage Dice Roll.
Beauty - 2d4 - Final Appeal 


Beat Up - Dark
1d8+X - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Beat Up can hit up to X times. X is the amount of pokemon on the user’s roster including the user, up to a maximum of 6. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Beat Up attack on that turn. For each target, use a different pokemon’s Attack stat from your roster to calculate damage. 
Smart - 2d4 - Reliable


Bite - Dark
2d10+8 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Bite Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 









Crunch - Dark
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Crunch lowers the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Dark Pulse - Dark
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Dark Pulse creates a 3-meter Burst. Dark Pulse Flinches all Legal Targets on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Aura

Dark Void - Dark
Battle - 4
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Dark Void creates a 10-meter Burst. All Legal Targets fall Asleep.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Embargo - Dark
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
If the target has a held item, they cannot use it for the remainder of the encounter.
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Faint Attack - Dark
1d10+10 - EOT - None
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Faint Attack cannot miss.
Smart - 2d4 - Round Ender 





Fake Tears - Dark
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Lower the target’s Special Defense 2 Combat Stages.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Flatter - Dark
EOT - None
Effect - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Flatter Confuses the target and raises the target’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Fling - Dark
2d12+5 - Battle - 2
Attack - Ranged (12)
Effect: 1 Target
The user may throw its held item when using Fling, changing its Damage Dice Roll. If a berry is thrown, the target receives the berry’s benefits as if the target, instead of taking any damage, consumed the berry. If an item that causes an effect is thrown, the item’s effect is activated. If any other item is thrown the user deals an additional 2d6 during Damage Dice Roll. All berries or other cosumable held items are destroyed when used with Fling. Items that are not destroyed by Fling may be retrieved after an encounter.
Tough - 1d4 - Catching Up 


Foul Play - Dark
4d12+16 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The target reveals its Attack stat. When calculating damage, add the target’s Attack stat instead of the user’s Attack stat.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect


Hone Claws - Dark
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage. For the remainder of Combat, the user’s Attack - Melee Moves need -1 on Accuracy Checks to hit. 
Cool - None - Get Ready! 


Knock Off - Dark
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the target has a held item, the target drops it and the item cannot be picked up or held for the remainder of combat. 
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 


Memento - Dark
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target
The user’s HP is set to 0. The user does not need a line of sight to the target. Momento cannot be used if the user is at or below 0 HP. Each of the target’s stats are lowered 2 Combat Stages.
Tough - None - Big Show 


Nasty Plot - Dark
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages.
Cute - None - Get Ready! 










Night Daze - Dark
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target 
The Target must roll +1 during Accuracy Checks for the remainder of the encounter on 13-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 2d4 - Unsettling


Night Slash - Dark
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Night Slash is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect 


Parting Shot - Dark
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target, Sound
If Parting Shot successfully hits its target, the user lowers the target’s Attack and Special Attack 1 Combat Stage and then immediately is returned to its Poke Ball in the same turn. A New Pokemon may immediately be sent out.
Cool - None - Inversed Appeal


Payback - Dark
2d8+6 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the target damaged Payback’s user on their last turn, deals 4d12+16 instead for Damage Dice Roll.
Cool - 1d4 - Special Attention 









Punishment - Dark
1d10+15 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Punishment deals an additional 1d10 for each Combat Stage the target has above 0 per raised stat up to an additional 6d10 per stat.
Smart - 1d4 - Catching Up 


Pursuit - Dark
1d12+6 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
If the foe is fleeing or being switched out, Pursuit may be used as an Interrupt. While being used as an Interrupt, Pursuit may shift the user adjacent to the fleeing foe, up to 25 meters, ignoring Speed Capabilities, and attack them before they escape or are switched out with an additional 3d10+12 added to the Damage Dice Roll. 
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 


Quash - Dark
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
Quash will not affect a Legal Target if it has already acted that round. Quash causes the target to act as if their Speed is 0, meaning their action is last for that turn.
Smart - 2d4 - Quick Set 


Snarl - Dark
2d10+8 - EOT - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Snarl creates a 5-meter Burst. All Legal Targets have their Special Attack lowered 1 Combat Stage.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 


  

Snatch - Dark
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
If the target is gaining a Combat Stage, you may use Snatch. The user gains the same Combat Stages the target does. Then, the target loses all Combat Stages they gained that turn. If the target is using a No Damage - Self Move, you may use Snatch. You use the No Damage - Self Move and the target does not.
Smart - None - Attention Grabber 


Sucker Punch - Dark
3d10+12 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
If something is targeting the user with a damaging Attack - Melee Move, you may use Sucker Punch on the offender as an Interrupt.
Smart - 2d4 - Quick Set 


Switcheroo - Dark
Battle - 2
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The user and the target exchange held items.
Cool - None - Attention Grabber 


Taunt - Dark
2d10+8 - EOT - 3
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Taunt’s target can only use Moves that have Damage Dice Rolls for the next 1d4+1 turns.
Smart - None - Inversed Appeal 








Thief - Dark
1d12+6 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Thief takes the target’s held item and attaches it to Thief’s user, if the user is not holding anything.
Tough - None - Attention Grabber 


Topsy-Turvy - Dark
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target
If the target has any negative Combat Stages, they are now positive. If the target has any positive Combat Stages, they are now negative.
Cute - None - Get Ready! 


Torment - Dark
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
For 1d4+2 turns, Torment’s target may not use a Move they have already used in their last 2 turns. 
Tough - None - Inversed Appeal 


Dragon Moves
Draco Meteor - Dragon
6d12+22 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: Target Area, Blast
Draco Meteor creates a 4-meter Blast. Lower the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages after damage.
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Dragon Claw - Dragon
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 



Dragon Dance - Dragon
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Speed 1 Combat Stage.  
Cool - None - Get Ready! 


Dragon Pulse - Dragon
3d12+10 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Dragon Pulse creates a 3-meter Burst.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 

*Grants: Aura

Dragon Rage - Dragon
40 - Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Dragon Rage always deals 40 points of Damage. Do not apply weakness or resistance. Do not apply stats.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Dragon Rush - Dragon
4d12+16 - Battle - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push
The target is Pushed 3-meters and it takes an additional 1d6 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6. Dragon Rush Flinches the target on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 









Dragon Tail - Dragon
2d10+8 - Battle - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
The target is Pushed 40-meters expelling them from the encounter if the terrain allows. They may still rejoin the encounter if they want to. During a trainer battle, the target’s owner must recall the Pushed target and replace them.
Smart - None - Big Show 


Dragonbreath - Dragon
2d10+8 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Dragonbreath creates a Column 1 meter wide. Dragonbreath Paralyzes all Legal Targets on 15-20 during Accuracy Check. 
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Dual Chop - Dragon
2d8+6 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Dual Chop can hit up to 2 times. If Dual Chop misses its first target, you may still use it a second time.
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


















Outrage - Dragon
5d12+18 - Center - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Outrage’s user must make another Melee attack for 1d2 more turns. The attack is identical to Outrage except for Outrage’s effect. After the first target is declared, Outrage targets the nearest Legal Target for its second or third round of use if the original target is unconscious.  If potential targets are an equal distance from the user, you may choose the target. After Outrage’s additional use(s) end(s), the user becomes Confused. For Pokemon users, the additional 1d2 are their Trainer’s Command Actions, unless the Trainer is unconscious, in which case the Pokemon acts on its own until finished.
Cool - 2d4 - Reliable 


Roar of Time - Dragon
7d10+28  - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Trap, Exhaust 
Roar of Time creates a 10-meter Burst. All legal targets are Trapped until they roll a 16-20 saving throw. They may attempt to make this save at any time once per round.
Cool - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Spacial Rend - Dragon
4d12+16 - Center - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (20)
Effect: 1 Target
Spacial Rend is a Critical Hit on 11-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 2d4 - Incentives 










Twister - Dragon
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Twister Flinches the target on 18-20 during Accuracy Check. If the target is airborne as a result of Fly or Sky Drop, Twister can hit them, ignoring Range and deals 2d12+16 for its Damage Dice Roll instead.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Electric Moves
Bolt Strike - Electric
5d12+22 - Center - 5
Attack - Ranged (20)
Effect: 1 Target 
Bolt Strike Paralyzes the target on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Charge - Electric
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
If the user performs an Electric Move on their next turn that deals damage, add its Damage Dice Roll an extra time to the damage. Raise the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage.
Smart - None - Get Ready! 

*Grants: Zapper

Charge Beam - Electric
2d8+6 - Battle - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Spirit Surge
Charge Beam creates a Column 1 meter wide. Charge Beam raises the user’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage on 11-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 






Discharge - Electric
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Discharge creates a 3-meter Burst. Discharge Paralyzes all legal targets on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Zapper

Eerie Impulse - Electric
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
The target’s Special Attack is lowered 2 Combat Stages. 
Smart - 2d4 - Unsettling 


Electric Terrain - Electric
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
For the remainder of the Encounter, nothing touching the ground within 10m of the user can fall Asleep. Any Electric-Type Moves used within 10m of the user deal an additional 3 STAB. 
Smart - 2d4 - Unsettling


Electrify - Electric
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
The next Move the target performs becomes Electric Type, replacing the Move’s other Types.
Smart - 2d4 - Hold That Thought










Electro Ball - Electric
See Effect - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
The target reveals their current Speed stat, applying Combat Stages. If the user’s Speed stat, applying Combat Stages is four times that of the target’s, Electro Ball uses 5d10+16 for Damage Dice Roll; if the user three times that of the target’s, Electro Ball uses 3d10+14; if the user is twice that of the target, Electro Ball uses 2d10+12; if the user is not twice as fast as the target, Electro Ball uses 1d10+10. 
Beauty - 2d4 - Final Appeal 


Electroweb - Electric
1d10+10 - EOT - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Electroweb creates a Column 2-meters wide. All Legal Targets are lowered 1 Speed Combat Stage.
Smart - 2d4 - Hold That Thought

*Grants: Threaded

Fusion Bolt - Electric
4d12+22 - Center - 2
Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Column 
Fusion Bolt creates a 4-meter Column. If an opponent in this, or the last, round of the encounter used Fusion Flare, Fusion Bolt deals an additional 8d12 in Damage Dice Roll.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Ion Deluge - Electric
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Interrupt
Until the user’s next action, all Normal Types Moves within 10m of the user become Electric Type.
Smart - 2d4 - Unsettling



Magnet Rise - Electric
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Magnet Rise grants the user the Levitate Ability until the end of the Encounter. This does not replace the user’s normal Ability. If the user already has Levitate, they now have two instances of Levitate.
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

*Grants: Magnetic

Magnetic Flux - Electric
EOT - None
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: No Target
All allies with the Ability Plus or Minus within 10 meters of the user have their Defense raised 1 Combat Stage and their Special Defense raised 1 Combat Stage.
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet

*Grants: Magnetic

Nuzzle - Electric
1d6+3 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Nuzzle Paralyzes the target.
Cute - 3d4 - No Effect


Parabolic Charge - Electric
2d8+4 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: 1 Target, Burst
Parabolic Charge creates a 3-meter Burst. After all legal targets take damage, the user gains HP equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target who took the most damage from Parabolic Charge.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 







Shock Wave - Electric
2d10+8 - EOT - None
Special Attack - Ranged (2)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Shock Wave creates a Column 2-meters wide. Shock Wave cannot miss.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Zapper

Spark - Electric
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Spark Paralyzes the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Thunder - Electric
5d12+18 - Battle  - 6
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
A 3-meter Blast surrounds the target. Thunder Paralyzes all Legal Targets on 13-20 during Accuracy Check. All Legal Targets within the Blast’s radius are Pushed outward, away from the target, 3-meters. If the target is in Sunny Weather, Thunder’s Accuracy Check is 11. If the target is in Rainy Weather, Thunder cannot miss. If the target is airborne as a result of Fly or Sky Drop, Thunder cannot miss them
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Thunder Fang - Electric
3d8+10 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Thunder Fang Paralyzes or Flinches on 18-19 during Accuracy Check; flip a coin to determine whether the foe gets Paralyzed or Flinches. On 20 during Accuracy Check, the foe is Paralyzed and Flinches.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 


 

Thunder Wave - Electric
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
Thunder Wave cannot miss. Thunder Wave Paralyzes the target.
Cool - 2d4 - Excitement 

 
Thunderbolt - Electric
4d12+16 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (7)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Thunderbolt creates a Column 1 meter wide. Thunderbolt Paralyzes all Legal Targets on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Zapper
 
Thunder Punch - Electric
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Thunder Punch Paralyzes the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Thundershock - Electric
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Thundershock Paralyzes the target on 17-20 during Accuracy Check. 
Cool - 2d4 - No Effect 

*Grants: Zapper

Volt Switch - Electric
3d8+10 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target
If Volt Switch successfully hits its target, the user deals damage and then immediately is returned to its Poke Ball in the same turn. A New Pokemon may immediately be sent out.
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal

Volt Tackle - Electric
5d12+18 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push, Recoil 1/3
The target is pushed back 5-meters. The target takes an additional 1d6 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6. Volt Tackle Paralyzes the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check. After Volt Tackle deals damage, Recoil.
Cool - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Wild Charge - Electric
3d12+14 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Recoil 1/4
After Wild Charge deals damage, Recoil.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Zap Cannon - Electric
5d12+18 - Battle - 12
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
A 2-meter Blast surrounds the target, Paralyzing all Legal Targets in the Blast.
Cool - 2d4 - Incentives 


Fairy Moves
Aromatic Mist - Fairy
At-Will - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Aromatic Mist raises the target’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet











Baby-Doll Eyes - Fairy
At-Will - 2
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
If a foe wants to declare a Move, you may instead use Baby-Doll Eyes on their turn before they can use their Move. Baby-Doll Eyes lowers the target’s Attack 1 Combat Stage.
Cute - 2d4 - Round Starter


Charm - Fairy
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Charm lowers the target’s Attack 2 Combat Stages.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement


Crafty Shield - Fairy
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
If a legal target is being hit by a Move without a Damage Dice Roll, the user may use Crafty Shield. Crafty Shield prevents the target from being effected by Moves without Damage Dice Rolls.
Smart - None - Inversed Appeal


Dazzling Gleam - Fairy
2d12+21 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Dazzling Gleam creates a Column 1 meter wide. 
Beauty - None - Reflective Appeal 


Disarming Voice - Fairy 
1d8+4 - EOT - None
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Disarming Voice creates a 4-meter Burst. Disarming Voice cannot miss. 
Cute - 2d4 - Unsettling 

Draining Kiss - Fairy
2d8+8 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
After the target takes damage, the user gains HP equal to 3/4th the damage they dealt to the target.
Cute - 2d4 - Unsettling 


Fairy Lock - Fairy
Battle - 2
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Trap
Both the user and the target are Trapped.
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 



Fairy Wind - Fairy
1d12+6 -At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Fairy Wind creates a Column 3 meters wide.
Beauty - None - Reflective Appeal 


Flower Shield - Fairy
EOT - None
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: No Target, Burst
All Grass Type Pokemon within 5 meters of the user have their Defense raised 1 Combat Stage.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet














Geomancy - Fairy
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Set Up
Once you declare the use of Geomancy, the user’s turn ends. On its next turn, the user may shift and use the rest of Geomancy’s effect. Raise the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages, raise the user’s Special Defense 2 Combat Stages, and raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages.
Cool - 1d4 - Special Attention 


Misty Terrain - Fairy
Battle - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 5 rounds, the area is considered Misty. While Misty, Pokemon touching the ground cannot become Burned, Frozen, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Asleep. 
Cute - 2d4 - Scrambler 


Moonblast - Fairy
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Moonblast lowers the target’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - None - Reflective Appeal 


Moonlight - Fairy
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user regains HP equal to half of its full HP. If it is Sunny, the user gains 2/3 of its full HP. If it is Rainy, Sand Storming or Hailing the user gains ¼ of their full HP. 
Beauty - None - Reflective Appeal 




Play Rough - Fairy
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Play Rough lowers the target’s Attack 1 Combat Stage on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cute - 2d4 - Unsettling 


Sweet Kiss - Fairy
Battle - 6
Effect - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Sweet Kiss Confuses the target.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 


Fighting Moves
Arm Thrust - Fighting
1d6+1 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Arm Thrust can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Arm Thrust attack on that turn. 
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


Aura Sphere - Fighting
3d12+14 - Battle - None
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Aura Sphere cannot miss.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Aura
 
Brick Break - Fighting
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Brick Break can destroy Walls.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


 

Bulk Up - Fighting
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage.  
Beauty - None - Get Ready! 


Circle Throw - Fighting
2d10+8 - Center - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
The target is Pushed 40-meters expelling them from the encounter if the terrain allows. They may still rejoin the encounter if they want to. During a trainer battle, the target’s owner must recall the Pushed target and replace them.
Tough - None - Big Show 


Close Combat - Fighting
5d12+18 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
The user’s Defense is lowered 1 Combat Stage and the user’s Special Defense is lowered 1 Combat Stage.
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Counter - Fighting
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (25)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
If the user is being hit by a Move that consults Attack for damage, you may use Counter. If the user survives the hit, the target is dealt damage equal to twice the amount of damage the user received. Do not apply weakness, resistance or immunity. Do not apply stats.
Tough - 2d4 - Final Appeal 






Cross Chop - Fighting
4d12+16 - Battle - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push
Cross Chop is a Critical Hit on 16-20 during Accuracy Check. Cross Chop Pushes the target 1-meter. On Critical Hit, the target is Pushed 5-meters and the target takes an additional 1d6 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Detect - Fighting
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Intercept
If the user is hit by a Move, instead you are not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects.
Cool - None - Inversed Appeal 

*Grants: Aura

Double Kick - Fighting
1d10+4 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Double Kick can hit up to 2 times. If Double Kick misses its first target, you may still use it a second time.
Cool - 2d4 - Reliable 


Drain Punch - Fighting
3d10+12 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
After the target takes damage, the user gains HP equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target.
Beauty - 1d4 - Good Show! 






Dynamic Punch - Fighting
4d12+16 - Battle - 12
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Dynamic Punch Confuses the target.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Final Gambit - Fighting
Center - 2
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Final Gambit lowers the user to 0 HP, and deals 1 point of damage to the foe for every point of health lost this way. Final Gambit does not cause items to activate.
Tough - None - Big Show


Flying Press - Fighting
3d10+12 - Battle - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
When applying weakness and resistance, treat Flying Press as both Fighting and Flying type.
Beauty - 1d4 - Good Show! 


Focus Blast - Fighting
5d12+18 - Battle - 6
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Focus Blast lower the target’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Aura










Focus Punch - Fighting
7d10+28 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
Once you declare the use of Focus Punch the user’s turn ends. If you are not hit by a damaging Move until your next turn you may use Focus Punch’s damage and effects. The target is Pushed 10-meters and it takes an additional 2d12 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d12. If the user is hit by a damaging Move before it’s next turn, it may not use a Move on that turn.
Tough - 1d4 - Special Attention 


Force Palm - Fighting
2d10+8 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Force Palm Paralyzes the target on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 

*Grants: Aura

Hammer Arm - Fighting
4d12+16 - Battle - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The user lowers their Speed 1 Combat Stage.
Cool - 2d4 - Slow Set 



High Jump Kick - Fighting
5d12+22 - Battle - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
If High Jump Kick misses, roll 4d10 and subtract the result from the user’s HP. Do not apply weakness, resistance or stats.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 



Jump Kick - Fighting
2d10+8 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
If Jump Kick misses, roll 2d10 and subtract the result from the user’s HP. Do not apply weakness, resistance or stats.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Karate Chop - Fighting
2d8+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Karate Chop is a Critical Hit on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Low Kick - Fighting
See Effect - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Weight Class
If the target is in Weight Class 1, use 1d10 for Damage Dice Roll. If the target is in Weight Class 2, use 1d10+5. If the target is in Weight Class 3, use 1d10+10. If the target is in Weight Class 4, use 2d10+12. If the target is in Weight Class 5, use 3d10+14. If the target is in Weight Class 6, use 5d10+16 for damage.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Low Sweep - Fighting
1d10+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Lowers the target’s Speed 1 Combat Stage.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect








Mach Punch - Fighting
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
If a foe wants to declare a Move, you may instead use Mach Punch on their turn before they can use their Move. 
Cool - 2d4 - Quick Set 


Mat Block - Fighting
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Mat Block can only be used on the first turn of an Encounter, or on the first turn the Pokemon could act after coming out of a Poke Ball. Until the user’s next turn, if any adjacent allies are hit by a Move with a Damage Dice Roll, instead they are not hit by the Move. They do not take any damage nor are they affected by any of the Move’s effects.
Cool - None - Inversed Appeal 


Power-Up Punch - Fighting
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Power-Up Punch raises the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect


Quick Guard - Fighting
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
Quick Guard prevents the user and allies from being targeted by Moves used as an Interrupt or Intercept for one round. For that round Interrupt or Intercept attacks can only target you, or other allies using Quick Guard.
Cool - None - Inversed Appeal 





Revenge - Fighting
2d10+8 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the target damaged Revenge’s user on their last turn, deals 4d12+16 instead during Damage Dice Roll.
Tough - 2d4 - Final Appeal 


Reversal - Fighting
See Effect - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the user has more than 70% of its total HP, use 1d10+5 for Damage Dice Roll. If the user has more than 36% of its total HP, use 2d10+10. If the user has more than 21% of its total HP, use 3d10+10. If the user has more than 6% of its total HP, use 4d10+10. If the user has 1-5% of its total HP, use 5d10+20.
Cool - 2d4 - Final Appeal 


Rock Smash - Fighting
1d12+6 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Rock Smash lowers the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Rolling Kick - Fighting
2d10+8 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Rolling Kick Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 









Sacred Sword - Fighting
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Sacred Sword’s Accuracy Check may not be modified.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Secret Sword - Fighting
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target 
When calculating damage, the target must use their Defense against Secret Sword.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Seismic Toss - Fighting
Center - 2
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The target loses HP equal to the level of Seismic Toss’ user. Do not apply weakness or resistance. Do not apply stats.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Sky Uppercut - Fighting
3d12+14 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
The target is Pushed 2-meters. If the target is airborne, Sky Uppercut deals an additional 2d10. If the target is airborne as a result of Fly or Sky Drop, Sky Uppercut cannot miss as long as you are in a space adjacent to the airborne target.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 









Storm Throw - Fighting
20 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Storm Throw is a Critical Hit. Do not double Storm Throw’s Damage Dice Roll for Critical Hits.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect


Submission - Fighting
3d10+12 - At-Will - 6
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Recoil 1/4
After Submission deals damage, Recoil.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Superpower - Fighting
5d12+18 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push
Superpower lowers the user’s Attack 1 Comabt Stage and Defense by 1 Combat Stage. The target is Pushed 6-meters and it takes an additional 1d6 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Triple Kick - Fighting
1d6+1 - Battle - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Triple Kick can hit up to 3 times. If Triple Kick misses its first or second target, you may still use it a second and third time. For the third use of Triple Kick, if you successfully hit the same target for the first two uses of Triple Kick use 3d12+8 for Triple Kick’s Damage Dice Roll.
Cool - 3d4 - Reliable 


 

Vacuum Wave - Fighting
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
If a foe wants to declare a Move, you may instead use Vacuum Wave on their turn before they can use their Move. 
Smart - 2d4 - Quick Set 

*Grants: Aura

Vital Throw - Fighting
3d8+10 - Battle - None
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
Vital Throw may only be used if the user was targeted by a Move on a foe’s last turn while the foe was adjacent. Vital Throw can only target that foe. Vital Throw cannot miss. The target is Pushed 5-meters and it takes an additional 1d6 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6.
Cool - 2d4 - Slow Set 


Wake-Up Slap - Fighting
2d8+6 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the target is Asleep, Wake-Up Slap does an additional 5d10 for Damage Dice Roll and cures the target of Sleep.
Smart - None - Inversed Appeal 


Fire Moves
Blast Burn - Fire
7d10+28 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: Target Area, Blast, Exhaust
Blast Burn creates a 3-meter Blast. On Miss, Blast Burn deals the user’s Special Attack instead to all possible targets. 
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


 


Blaze Kick - Fire
3d12+14 - Battle - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
Blaze Kick Pushes the target 2-meters. Blaze Kick Burns the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check. Blaze Kick is a Critical Hit on 16-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Blue Flare - Fire
5d12+22 - Center - 5
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target 
Blue Flare Burns the target on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect

 
Ember - Fire
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Ember Burns the target on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect 

*Grants: Firestarter   

Eruption - Fire
7d10+28 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Eruption creates a 10-meter Burst. Eruption may not be performed unless the user has at least 90% of its HP.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Fiery Dance - Fire
3d10+12 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Spirit Surge
Fiery Dance raises the user’s Special Attack by 1 Combat Stage on 11-20 on Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Fire Blast - Fire
5d12+18 - Battle - 6
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Fire Blast creates a 2-meter Blast. Fire Blast burns all Legal Targets on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Firestarter

Fire Fang - Fire
3d8+10 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee 
Effect: 1 Target
Fire Fang Burns or Flinches on 18-19 during Accuracy Check; flip a coin to determine whether the foe gets Burned or Flinches. On 20 during Accuracy Check, the foe is Burned and Flinches.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect 


Fire Pledge - Fire
2d8+6 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Pledge
If used on the same turn as Water Pledge, all secondary effects of Moves are activated at a -3 during the Accuracy Check for 1d4+1 turns. If used on the same turn as Grass Pledge, all foes within 20 meters of the user lose 1/8th of their max HP at the end of each round of combat for 1d4+1 turns.
Beauty - None - Torrential Appeal 


Fire Punch - Fire
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Fire Punch Burns the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter





Fire Spin - Fire
1d12+6 - EOT - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Trap
Fire Spin Traps the target for 1d4+1 turns. At the beginning of the target’s turn, if the target is Trapped, roll 1d12 and the target loses that much HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance to the HP lost. Do not apply stats to the HP lost. Fire Spin may not trap more then one target at a time. 
Beauty - None - Torrential Appeal 

*Grants: Firestarter

Flame Burst - Fire
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: No Target, Blast
Flame Burst creates a 4-meter Blast. All Legal Targets, not including the central taget, hit in the Blast lose 1/16th of their max HP instead of taking the Damage Dice Roll for damage.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Firestarter

Flame Charge - Fire
2d8+6 - EOT - 2 
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Raise the user’s Speed 1 Combat Stage.
Tough - 2d4 - Excitement 


Flame Wheel - Fire
2d10+8 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Flame Wheel Burns the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Reliable 






Flamethrower - Fire
4d12+16 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Flamethrower creates a Column 1 meter wide. Flamethrower Burns the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check. 
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Firestarter

Flare Blitz - Fire
5d12+18 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push, Recoil 1/3
The target is pushed back 5-meters. The target takes an additional 1d6 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6. Flare Blitz Burns the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check. After Flare Blitz deals damage, Recoil.
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Fusion Flare - Fire
4d12+16 - Center - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Column 
Fusion Flare creates a 4-meter Column. If an opponent in this, or the last, round of the encounter used Fusion Bolt, Fusion Flare deals an additional 8d12 in Damage Dice Roll.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Heat Crash - Fire
See Effect - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Weight Class
If the user is in the same Weight Class as the target, use 1d10 for Damage Dice Roll; if the user is one Weight Class higher than the target, use 1d10+10; if the user is two Weight Classes higher than the target, use 2d12+12; if three classes, 3d10+14; if four classes, 5d10+16.
Tough - 2d4 - Incentives 

Heat Wave - Fire
4d12+16 - Battle - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Heat Wave creates a 3-meter burst. Heat Wave Burns all Legal Targets on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Incinerate - Fire
1d10+4 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
If the target is holding a Berry, the Berry is destroyed, without its ability activating.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect 


Inferno - Fire
4d12+16 - Center - 11
Special Attack - Ranged (2)
Effect: No Target, Blast
Inferno creates a 2-meter Blast. Inferno Burns all Legal Targets.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect 


Lava Plume - Fire
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
Lava Plume Burns the target on 16-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Starter 














Magma Storm - Fire
5d12+18 - Center - 7
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Trap
Magma Storm Traps the target for 1d4+1 turns. At the beginning of the target’s turn, if the target is Trapped, roll 2d20 and the target loses that much HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance to the HP lost. Do not apply stats to the HP lost. Magma Storm may not trap more then one target at a time. 
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


Mystical Fire - Fire
1d12+18 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Mystical Fire lowers the target’s Special Attack 1 stage.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet


Overheat - Fire
6d12+22 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (2)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Overheat creates a 2-meter Burst. Lower the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages after damage.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Sacred Fire - Fire
4d12+16 - Center - 3
Attack - Ranged (7)
Effect: 1 Target, Burst
Sacred Fire creates a 7-meter Burst. Sacred Fire Burns all Legal Targets in the Burst on 11-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 







Searing Shot - Fire
4d12+16 - Center - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target 
Searing Shot Burns the Target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter


Sunny Day - Fire
Battle - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 1d4+1 rounds, the area is considered Sunny. While Sunny, Fire-Type attacks deal 1.5x damage. Water-Type attacks deal ½ the damage they normally would.
Beauty - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


V-Create - Fire
8d10+36 - Center - 5
Attack - Melee
Effect: No Target, Burst 
V-Create creates a 10-meter Burst. Lower the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage, lower the user’ Special Defense 1 Combat Stage and lower the user’s Speed 1 Combat Stage.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet


Will-O-Wisp - Fire
Battle - 4
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
The target is Burned.
Beauty - None - Round starter 











Flying Moves
Acrobatics - Flying
2d10+8 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the user is not holding an item, Acrobatics deals 4d12+16 instead during Damage Dice Roll.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Aerial Ace - Flying
2d10+8 - EOT - None
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Aerial Ace cannot miss.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Aeroblast - Flying
4d12+16 - Center - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (20)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Aeroblast creates a Column 2-meters wide. Aeroblast is a Critical Hit on 11-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Air Cutter - Flying
2d10+8 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Air Cutter is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Air Slash - Flying
3d10+12 - EOT - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Air Slash Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 





Bounce - Flying
3d12+14 - Battle - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Burst
Once you declare the use of Bounce, the user is moved up to 10-meters into the air and then the user’s turn ends. On your next turn, shift while in the air, lower your height back to the ground, and then use Bounce’s damage and the rest of its Effect. Bounce creates a Burst equal half the user’s Weight Class. Bounce Paralyzes all Legal Targets on 17-20 during Accuracy Check. 
Cute - 1d4 - Special Attention 

*Grants: Jump +1
 
Brave Bird - Flying
5d12+18 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push, Recoil 1/3
The target is pushed back 5-meters. The target takes an additional 1d6 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6. After Brave Bird deals damage, Recoil.
Cute - 2d4 - Round Ender 

 
Chatter - Flying
2d10+8 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Sound
Chatter creates a Column 1 meter wide. Chatter Confuses all Legal Targets.
Smart - 1d4 - Catching Up

 
Defog - Flying
EOT - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather 
For 1d4+1 rounds, the area is considered Clear. While Clear, all hindering terrain is no longer hindering terrain and all bonuses or penalties to Accuracy Checks are ignored. All Walls, Coats and Hazards are destroyed.
Beauty - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

Drill Peck - Flying
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Featherdance - Flying
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Feather Dance creates a 1-meter Blast. All Legal Targets in the Blast have their Attack lowered 2 Combat Stages.
Beauty - 2d4 - Excitement 


Fly - Flying
3d12+14 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Set Up
Once you declare the use of Fly, the user is shifted 25-meters into the air and then the user’s turn ends. On your next turn, shift while in the air, lower the user back to the target’s level on the battlefield, then use Fly’s damage.
Smart - 1d4 - Special Attention 

*Grants: Sky +3

Gust - Flying
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
If the target is airborne as a result of Fly or Sky Drop, Gust can hit them, ignoring Range and deals 2d12+16 for its Damage Dice Roll instead.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 

*Grants: Guster








Hurricane - Flying
5d12+18 - Battle - 6
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Hurricane creates a 4-meter Blast. Hurricane Confuses all Legal Targets on 13-20 during Accuracy Check. All Legal Targets within the Blast’s radius are Pushed outward, away from the target, 3-meters. If the target is in Sunny Weather, Hurricane’s Accuracy Check is 11. If the target is in Rainy Weather, Hurricane cannot miss. If the target is airborne as a result of Fly or Sky Drop, Hurricane cannot miss them.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter


Mirror Move - Flying
See Effect - Center - None
Effect - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target
Use the Move the target has used on their last turn. You may choose new targets for the Move. Mirror Move cannot miss. 
Smart - 2d4 - Final Appeal 


Oblivion Wing - Flying
4d12+17 - Battle - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
After the target takes damage, the user gains HP equal to 3/4th the damage they dealt to the target.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Peck - Flying
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 






Pluck - Flying
2d10+8 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the target is holding a Berry, Pluck deals an additional 2d10 during Damage Dice Roll and Pluck destroys the Berry then Pluck’s user uses the Berry’s effect. 
Cute - None - Attention Grabber 


Roost - Flying
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user regains HP equal to half of its full HP. The user looses any resistances or immunities to Ground-type Moves until the end of their next turn.
Cool - None - Torrential Appeal 


Sky Attack - Flying
6d12+22 - Battle - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Once you declare the use of Sky Attack, the user is moved 10-meters into the air and then the user’s turn ends. On your next turn, shift while in the air, lower your height back to the target and then use Sky Attack’s damage. Sky Attack Flinches the target on 17-20 during Accuracy Check. 
Cool - 1d4 - Special Attention 
















Sky Drop - Flying
2d10+8 - Center - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Set Up
Once you declare the use of Sky Drop, the user and target are moved 25-meters into the air, the Target is Trapped and then the user’s turn ends. On your next turn, shift while in the air, lower both the user and the target’s heights back to the ground, then use Sky Drop’s damage and the target is no longer Trapped. This move does not damage Flying type pokemon. If used without following up with the rest of Sky Drop’s actions on the turn following its use, Lower the user and the target back down, do not use Sky Drop’s damage and the target is no longer Trapped.  
Smart - 1d4 - Special Attention


Tailwind - Flying
At-Will - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Column
Tailwind creates a Column 5-meters wide. For 1d6+1 turns, Tailwind’s user and all of the user’s allies in the Column have their Speed raised 1 Combat Stage. When the user or the user’s allies leave the Column or when the Column dissapears, their Speed is lowered 1 Combat Stage. Whenever you make a new Tailwind Cloumn, the last one the user made disappears.
Smart - 2d4 - Quick Set 

*Grants: Guster

Wing Attack - Flying
2d10+8 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 






Ghost Moves
Astonish - Ghost
1d10+4 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Astonish Flinches the target on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 


Confuse Ray - Ghost
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Confuse Ray creates a Column 1 meter wide. Confuse Ray cannot miss. All targets are Confused.
Smart - 2d4 - Unsettling 



Curse - Ghost
If: User is Ghost Type
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
The user loses ½ of their full HP and the target Pokemon is Cursed. A Cursed Pokemon loses 1/8th of their full HP at the beginning of each of their turns. Do not apply weakness, resistance or stats to the lost HP. 
If: User is Not Ghost Type 
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user’s Speed is lowered 1 Combat Stage. The user’s Attack is raised 1 Combat Stage and the user’s Defense is raised 1 Combat Stage.
Tough - None - Torrential Appeal 









Destiny Bond - Ghost
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (20)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
When the user faints after taking damage from a Move, you may use Destiny Bond as an Intercept to target the Pokemon who lowered the user to 0 HP or less. Roll 1d20, on a roll of 6 or better the target is set to 0 HP.
Smart - None - Big Show 


Grudge - Ghost
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (20)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
When the user faints, you may use Grudge as an Intercept. The Move that caused the user to drop to 0 HP or less has its Frequency changed to Center for 1 hour.
Tough - 2d4 - Unsettling 


Hex - Ghost
2d8+6 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
If the target has a status affliction, Hex deals 4d12+16 instead during Damage Dice Roll.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Lick - Ghost
1d6+3 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Lick Paralyzes the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - None - Inversed Appeal 








Night Shade - Ghost
Center - 2
Effect - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
The target loses HP equal to the level of Night Shade’s user. Do not apply weakness or resistance. Do not apply stats.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 


Nightmare - Ghost
EOT - 2
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Nightmare can only hit Legal Targets that are Asleep. Nightmare gives a special affliction, Bad Sleep. Bad Sleep makes a target lose ¼ of its full HP per turn while it is Bad Sleeping. When the target wakes up, they are cured of Bad Sleep.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Ominous Wind - Ghost
2d10+8 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Spirit Surge
Ominous Wind creates a Column that is 2-meters wide. If you rolled 11-20 during Accuracy Check for Ominous Wind, the user has each of its stats raised 1 Combat Stage. If you rolled 16-20 on the Accuracy Roll, all allies in the Column also have each of their stats raised 1 Combat Stage and are not damaged by Ominous Wind.
Smart - None - Get Ready! 













Phantom Force - Ghost
3d12+19 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Set Up
Once you declare the use of Phantom Force, the user is removed from the field and the user’s turn ends. On the next turn, Phantom Force’s user appears adjacent to any target, ignoring Speed Capabilties, and then uses Phantom Force’s damage. 
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Shadow Ball - Ghost
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Shadow Ball lowers the foe’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Round Starter


Shadow Claw - Ghost
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Shadow Claw is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cute - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Shadow Force - Ghost
5d12+18 - Center - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Set Up
Once you declare the use of Shadow Force, the user is removed from the field and the user’s turn ends. On the next turn, Shadow Force’s user appears adjacent to any target, ignoring Speed Capabilties, and then uses Shadow Force’s damage. 
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 




Shadow Punch - Ghost
2d10+8 - EOT - None
Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
Shadow Punch cannot miss.
Smart - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Shadow Sneak - Ghost
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass, Interrupt
If a foe wants to declare a Move, you may instead use Shadow Sneak on their turn before they can use their Move. 
Smart - 2d4 - Quick Set 


Spite - Ghost
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target
Spite lowers the target’s last move’s Frequency for the remainder of the encounter. EOT Frequency Moves are changed into Battle Frequency. At-Will Frequency Moves are changed into EOT Frequency. Spite may not target the same target’s Move more then once per encounter.
Tough - 2d4 - Excitement 


Trick-or-Treat - Ghost
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target 
For 1d4+1 turns, the target gains the Ghost Type if it isn’t already, in addition to its other type(s). The target can have up to 3 types as a result of Trick-or-Treat.
Smart - None - Torrential Appeal 







Grass Moves
Absorb - Grass
1d6+3 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
After the target takes damage, the user gains HP equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 


Aromatherapy - Grass
Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
The target has 1 status effect of their choice removed. Aromatherapy cannot miss.
Smart - None - Reflective Appeal 


Bullet Seed - Grass
1d10+4 - At-Will - 4
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Bullet Seed can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Bullet Seed attack on that turn. 
Cool - 2d4 - Reliable 


Cotton Guard - Grass
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Defense 3 Combat Stages.
Cute - None - Get Ready! 


Cotton Spore - Grass
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Cotton Spore creates a 2-meter Blast. All Legal Targets have their Speed lowered 2 Combat Stages.
Beauty - 2d4 - Quick Set 

Energy Ball - Grass
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Energy Ball lowers the foe’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Forest’s Curse - Grass
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target 
For 1d4+1 turns, the target gains the Grass Type if it isn’t already, in addition to its other type(s). The target can have up to 3 types as a result of Forest’s Curse.
Smart - None - Torrential Appeal 


Frenzy Plant - Grass
7d10+28 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: Target Area, Blast, Exhaust 
Frenzy Plant creates a 3-meter Blast. On Miss, Frenzy Plant deals the user’s Special Attack instead to all possible targets.
Cool - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Giga Drain - Grass
3d10+12 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
After the target takes damage, the user gains HP equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 


 






Grass Knot - Grass
See Effect - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target, Weight Class
If the target is in Weight Class 1, use 1d10 for Damage Dice Roll. If the target is in Weight Class 2, use 1d10+5. If the target is in Weight Class 3, use 1d10+10. If the target is in Weight Class 4, use 2d10+12. If the target is in Weight Class 5, use 3d10+14. If the target is in Weight Class 6, use 5d10+16 for damage.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Grass Pledge - Grass
2d8+6 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Pledge
If used on the same turn as Water Pledge, all foes are treated as if at -2 Speed Combat Stages for 1d4+1 turns, if any foe has additional Speed Combat Stages, apply them as usual. If used on the same turn as Fire Pledge, all foes within 20 meters of the user lose 1/8th of their max HP at the end of each round of combat for 1d4+1 turns.
Beauty - None - Torrential Appeal 


Grass Whistle - Grass
EOT - 11
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Grass Whistle creates a 5-meter Burst. All Legal Targets fall Asleep.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 














Grassy Terrain - Grass
Battle - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 5 rounds, the area is considered Meadowed. While Meadowed, Grass Moves with Damage Dice Rolls deal  and additional 2 STAB and at the end of any Grass Type Pokemon’s turn where they acted, they recover 1/16th of their full HP.
Cute - 1d4 - Good Show!


Horn Leech - Grass
3d10+12 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
After the target takes damage, the user gains HP equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show!


Ingrain - Grass
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Coat
Ingrain is a Coat with the following abilities: The user cannot be forced to switch out or flee but they can still be willingly switched out. At the beginning of each of the user’s turns, the user gains 1/16th of its full HP. The user loses any immunities to Ground-Type Moves.
Smart - None - Torrential Appeal 

*Grants: Sprouter

Leaf Blade - Grass
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Leaf Blade is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 





Leaf Storm - Grass
6d12+22 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: Target Area, Column
Leaf Storm creates a 2-meter Column. Lower the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages after damage.
Cute - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Leaf Tornado - Grass
3d8+10 - Battle - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Leaf Tornado creates a 2-meter Burst. On 15-20 during Accuracy Check, all Legal Targets must roll 1 higher on Accuracy Checks for the remainder of the combat.
Beauty - 1d4 - Good Show!


Leech Seed - Grass
Center - 4
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
At the beginning of each of the target’s turns, Leech Seed’s target loses 1/8th of their full HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance to the HP lost. Do not apply stats to the HP lost. Leech Seed’s user then gains HP equal to the amount the target lost. Leech Seed lasts until the target faints or is returned to a Poke Ball. Leech Seed cannot hit a Grass type Pokemon.
Smart - None - Torrential Appeal 


Magical Leaf - Grass
2d10+8 - EOT - None
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Magical Leaf cannot miss.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 





Mega Drain - Grass
1d12+6 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
After the target takes damage, the user gains HP equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 


Needle Arm - Grass
2d10+8 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Needle Arm Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 


Petal Blizzard - Grass
3d12+19 - Battle - 2
Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Petal Blizzard creates a 4-meter Burst.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 


Petal Dance - Grass
5d12+18 - Center - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Petal Dance’s user must make another Ranged attack for 1d2 more turns. The attack is identical to Petal Dance except for Petal Dance’s effect. Petal Dance creates a 3-meter Burst, but only on the first round of its use. After the first use is declared, Petal Dance targets the nearest Legal Target for its second or third round of use if the original target is unconscious. If potential targets are an equal distance from the user, you may choose the target. After Petal Dance’s additional use(s) end(s), the user becomes Confused. For Pokemon users, the additional 1d2 are their Trainer’s Command Actions, unless the Trainer is unconscious, in which case the Pokemon acts on its own until finished.
Beauty - None - Torrential Appeal 


Power Whip - Grass
5d12+18 - Battle - 5
Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect 

*Grants: Threaded

Razor Leaf - Grass
2d10+8 - At-Will - 4
Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Razor Leaf is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Seed Bomb - Grass
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Seed Bomb creates a 2-meter Blast.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 


Seed Flare - Grass
5d12+18 - Center - 5
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Seed Flare creates a 3-meter Blast. All Legal Targets have their Special Defense lowered 1 Combat Stage.
Cool - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Sleep Powder - Grass
Center - 6
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast 
Sleep Powder creates a 1-meter Blast. All Legal Targets fall Asleep.
Smart - None - Inversed Appeal 








Solarbeam - Grass
5d12+18 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Set Up 
Once you declare the use of Solarbeam, the user’s turn ends. On its next turn, the user may shift and use Solarbeam’s damage. If the user is in Sunny Weather, Solarbeam uses its damage on the turn you declare its use. If the user is in Rainy or Sand Storming Weather Solarbeam’s user must end their turn immediately at the start of their second turn after declaring Solarbeam’s use, only getting to use Solarbeam’s damage on the third turn. If the user is in Hailing Weather, Solarbeam’s damage is 3d10. Solarbeam creates a Column 1 meter wide. 
Cool - 1d4 - Special Attention 


Spiky Shield - Grass
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Intercept
If the user is hit by a Move, instead you are not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. If the Move was Melee ranged, the attacker loses 1/8th of their full HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance when losing HP this way.
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal 


Spore - Grass
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
The target falls Asleep.
Beauty - 2d4 - Get Ready! 









Stun Spore - Grass
At-Will - 11
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Stun Spore creates a 1-meter Blast. Stun Spore paralyzes al Legal Targets.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Synthesis - Grass
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user regains HP equal to half of its full HP. If it is Sunny, the user gains 2/3 of its full HP. If it is Rainy, Sand Storming or Hailing the user gains ¼ of their full HP. 
Smart - None - Reflective Appeal 

*Grants: Sprouter

Vine Whip - Grass
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 

*Grants: Threaded

Wood Hammer - Grass
5d12+18 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push, Recoil 1/3
The target is pushed back 5-meters. The target takes an additional 1d6 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6. After Wood Hammer deals damage, Recoil.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 









Worry Seed - Grass
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
The target’s Ability is replaced with Insomnia. If the target has multiple Abilities, Worry Seed only replaces one.
Beauty - 2d4 - Excitement


Ground Moves
Bone Club - Ground
3d8+10 - EOT - 5
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Bone Club Flinches the target on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Bone Rush - Ground
1d10+4 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Bone Rush can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Bone Rush attack on that turn. 
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


Bonemerang - Ground
2d12+8 - EOT - 3
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Bonemerang can hit up to 2 times. If Bonemerang misses its first target, you may still use it a second time.
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


Bulldoze - Ground
2d10+8 - EOT - 2
Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Bulldoze creates a 3-meter Burst. All Legal Targets are lowered 1 Speed Combat Stage. 
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect

Dig - Ground
3d10+12 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Set Up
Once you declare the use of Dig, the user is moved underground and their turn ends. On the next turn, Dig’s user may shift, using their Overland or Burrow Speed then uses Dig’s damage. While underground, Dig’s user may not be the target of Moves.
Smart - 1d4 - Special Attention 

*Grants: Burrow +3

Drill Run - Ground
3d10+12 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Drill Run is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Earth Power - Ground
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Earth Power creates a 3-meter Blast. Earth Power lowers the Special Defense of all Legal Targets 1 Combat Stage on 16-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Earthquake - Ground
4d12+16 - Battle - 2
Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Earthquake creates a 5-meter Burst. Earthquake can hit targets using the Move Dig.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 

*Grants: Groundshaper






Fissure - Ground
Center - 15
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Fissure creates a Column that is 3-meters wide. All Legal Targets have their HP set to 0. Fissure can hit targets using the Move Dig.
Tough - None - Big Show 


Land’s Wrath - Ground
4d12+16 - Battle - 2
Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Land’s Wrath creates a 5-meter Burst.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 

*Grants: Groundshaper

Magnitude - Ground
See Effect - EOT - 2
Attack - Ranged (2)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Magnitude creates a 2-meter Burst. Roll 1d6. On a result of 1, use 1d4 for damage. On a result of 2, use 1d8 for damage. On a result of 3, use 2d8 for damage. On a result of 4, use 2d10 for damage. On a result of 5, use 3d10 for damage. On a result of 6, use 4d10 for damage. Magnitude can hit targets using the Move Dig.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 

*Grants: Groundshaper

Mud Bomb - Ground
3d8+10 - EOT - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Mud Bomb creates a 1-meter Blast. All Legal Targets must roll +1 during Accuracy Checks for the remainder of the encounter on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Round Ender 



Mud Shot - Ground
2d10+8 - EOT - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Mud Shot creates a Column 1 meter wide. All Legal Targets have their Speed lowered 1 Combat Stage.
Tough - 2d4 - Slow Set 


Mud Sport - Ground
EOT - None
Effect - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Coat
Mud Sport makes a Coat that resists Electric Moves. Mud Sport can Target Self. 
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Mud-Slap - Ground
1d6+3 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (2)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Mud-Slap creates a Column 1-meter wide. All Legal Targets must roll +1 during Accuracy Checks for the remainder of the encounter.
Cute - 3d4 - No Effect 


Rototiller - Ground
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: No Target
All Grass Type allies within 10 meters of the user have their Attack raised 1 Combat Stage and their Special Attack raised 1 Combat Stage.
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet











Sand Tomb - Ground
1d12+6 - EOT - 4
Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Trap
Sand Tomb Traps the target for 1d4+1 turns. At the beginning of the target’s turn, if the target is Trapped, roll 1d20 and the target loses that much HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance to the HP lost. Do not apply stats to the HP lost. Sand Tomb may not trap more then one target at a time. 
Smart - None - Torrential Appeal 


Sand-Attack - Ground
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (2)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Sand-Attack creates a Column 1 meter wide. All Legal Targets must roll +1 during Accuracy Checks for the remainder of the encounter.
Cute - 1d4 - Excitement 


Spikes - Ground
At-Will - None
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: No Target, Hazard
Set 10 square meters of Spikes, all 10 meters must be adjacent with at least one other space of Spikes next to each other. Spikes cause all foes to lose 1/8th of their full HP when moving onto or over the occupied spaces with an Overland Capability. If there are 2 Layers of Spikes on the same space, the foes lose 1/6th of their full HP. If there are 3 or more Layers of Spikes on the same space, the foes lose 1/4th of their full HP.
Smart - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


 






Ice Moves
Aurora Beam - Ice
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Aurora Beam creates a Column 1 meter wide. Aurora Beam lowers the target’s Attack 1 Combat Stage on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Freezer
 
Avalanche - Ice
2d10+8 - Battle - 2
Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Avalanche creates a Column 2-meters wide. If a target damaged Avalanche’s user on their last turn, deal an additional 2d10 during Damage Dice Roll.
Cool - 2d4 - Final Appeal 

       
Blizzard - Ice
5d12+18 - Battle - 7
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Blizzard creates a Column that is 3-meters wide. Blizzard Freezes all legal targets on 16-20 during accuracy Check. If the target is in Hailing Weather, Blizzard cannot miss.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Freezer

Freeze-Dry - Ice
1d12+16 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
Freeze-Dry Freezes the Target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check. When applying weakness and resistance, Freeze-Dry is always super-effective on Water-type Pokemon.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Freezer


Freeze Shock - Ice
6d12+22 - Center - 4
Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Push
Freeze Shock creates a Column 2-meters wide. All Legal Targets are pushed 10-meters and take an additional 1d6 if Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6. Freeze Shock paralyzes all Legal Targets on 15-20 on Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Frost Breath - Ice
20 - Battle - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (2)
Effect: 1 Target
Frost Breath is a Critical Hit. Do not double Frost Breath’s Damage Dice Roll for Crtical Hits.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect


Glaciate - Ice
3d8+10 - Battle - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target 
Glaciate creates a 5-meter Burst. All Legal Targets have their Speed lowered 1 Combat Stage. On a roll of 11-20 during Accuracy Check, all Legal Targets on the ground are Trapped and cannot shift for 2 rounds.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect


Hail - Ice
Battle - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 1d4+1 rounds, the area is considered Hailing. At the beginning of each round, all non-Ice Type Pokemon lose 1/16th of their full HP. Ice Type Pokemon are treated as if their Defense is raised 2 Combat Stages while Hailing.
Beauty - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Haze - Ice
At-Will - None
Field - No Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 3 rounds, the area is considered Hazy. Hazy does not replace other Weather Statuses. In Hazy Weather, all Combat Stages get set to 0. 
Beauty - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Ice Ball - Ice
1d10+4 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
The user must use Ice Ball until it misses, or fails to be able to shift enough to hit a target for their next 4 turns. On the second turn, Ice Ball uses 2d10+8 for its Damage Dice Roll. On the third turn, Ice Ball uses 2d10+12. On the fourth turn, Ice Ball uses 3d10+16. On the fifth and final turn, Ice Ball uses 4d10+20. 
Beauty - 2d4 - Reliable 


Ice Beam - Ice
4d12+16 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Ice Beam creates a Column 1 meter wide. Ice Beam Freezes all Legal Targets on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Freezer
 












Ice Burn - Ice
6d12+22 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Ice Burn creates a Column 2-meters wide. All Legal Targets are pushed 10-meters and take an additional 1d6 if Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d6. Ice Burn Burns all Legal Targets on 15-20 on Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 

 
Ice Fang - Ice
3d8+10 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Ice Fang Freezes or Flinches on 18-19 during Accuracy Check; flip a coin to determine whether the foe gets Frozen or Flinches. On 20 during Accuracy Check, the foe is Frozen and Flinches.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 

 
Ice Punch - Ice
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Ice Punch Freezes the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

 
Ice Shard - Ice
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
If a foe wants to declare a Move, you may instead use Ice Shard on their turn before they can use their Move. 
Beauty - 2d4 - Quick Set 


 



Icicle Crash - Ice
3d12+14 - Battle - 4
Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target 
Icicle Crash Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Icicle Spear - Ice
1d10+4 - EOT - 4
Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Icicle Spear can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Icicle Spear attack on that turn. 
Beauty - 2d4 - Reliable 


Icy Wind - Ice
2d10+8 - EOT - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Icy Wind creates a Column 1-meter wide. All Legal Targets have their Speed lowered 1 Combat Stage.
Beauty - 2d4 - Slow Set 


Mist - Ice
At-Will - None
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target, Coat
The target with Mist’s Coat may not have their Combat Stages lowered. Mist can Target Self.
Beauty - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Powder Snow - Ice
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Powder Snow creates a 1-meter wide. Powder Snow Freezes all Legal Targets on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect 

*Grants: Freezer
Sheer Cold - Ice
Center - 16
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Sheer Cold creates 3-meter Blast. All Legal Targets have their HP set to 0. 
Beauty - 2d4 - Big Show 

*Grants: Freezer

Normal Moves
Acupressure - Normal
EOT - 2
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target or Target Self
Roll 1d6. On a result of 1, raise the target’s Attack 2 Combat Stages. On a result of 2, raise the target’s Defense 2 Combat Stages. On a result of 3, raise the target’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages. On a result of 4, raise the target’s Special Defense 2 Combat Stages. On a result of 5, raise the target’s Speed 2 Combat Stages. On a result of 6, the target needs -2 to hit during Accuracy Checks. 
Cool - None - Get Ready! 


After You - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self 
Effect: 1 Target
The target goes first during the next round of combat, ignoring Speed stats. They may not be Interrupted by any Moves that round.
Smart - 2d4 - Slow Set 


Assist - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Randomly select another pokemon on the user’s roster and then randomly select a Move that Pokemon knows. Assist’s user uses that Move immediatley. 
Cute - 2d4 - Scrambler 

Attract - Normal
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Attract Infatuates the target. Attract may not affect something that is the same gender as the user or something that is genderless. 
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 


Barrage - Normal
1d6+3 - EOT - 4
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Barrage can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Barrage attack on that turn. 
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 

 
Baton Pass - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user is replaced with another pokemon from their trainer’s roster. All Combat Stages and Coats on Baton Pass’ user are transferred to the replacement. Baton Pass can ignore Traps, but the replacement is then Trapped. 
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal 

 
Belly Drum - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: 1 Target
Belly Drum’s user loses HP equal to half of its full HP. Do not appliy the user’s stats to the HP lost. Belly Drum sets the user’s Attack to +6 Combat Stages.
Cute - None - Get Ready! 


 





Bestow - Normal
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
The user gives its held item to the target, unless the target is already holding an item.
Cute - None - Attention Grabber


Bide - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
You may use Bide as an Intercept upon being targeted by a Move. After declaring the use of Bide, the user ends their turn. At the start of their next turn, end their turn. On the turn after that, add up all of the damage the user has taken in the past 2 turns, call that total X. Bide’s Target loses HP equal to twice the value of X. Do not apply weakness or resistance to the HP lost as a result of Bide. Do not apply stats to the HP lost as a result of Bide. Bide cannot miss.
Tough - 2d4 - Final Appeal 


Bind - Normal
1d6+3 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Trap
Bind Traps the target and the user for 1d4+1 turns. At the beginning of the target’s turn, if the target is Trapped, roll 1d12 and the target loses that much HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance to the HP lost. Do not apply stats to the HP lost. Bind may not trap more then one target at a time unless the User is Huge or Gigantic. 
Tough - None - Torrential Appeal 


Block - Normal
Battle - 2
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Trap
Both the user and the target are Trapped.
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

Body Slam - Normal
3d12+14 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Body Slam Paralyzes the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Boomburst - Normal
5d12+25 - Center - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4) 
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Boomburst creates a 4-meter Burst. 
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect


Camouflage - Normal
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: 1 Target
The user changes their Type to match the field. Forests and grassy areas change the user into Grass-Type. Watery areas change the user into Water-Type. Caves and Mountains could change the user into Rock-Type or Ground-Type. An icy terrain would turn the user into Ice- Type. A building may change the user into Steel-Type or Normal-Type. Weather affects what Type the user becomes. Use common sense, if you are having difficult determining what type the user should become, consult the GM. 
Smart - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

*Grants: Blender

Captivate - Normal
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Captivate lowers the target’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages. Captivate may not affect something that is the same gender as the user or something that is genderless.
Beauty - 2d4 - Excitement 


Celebrate - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal 


Chip Away - Normal
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Ignore any changes in the target’s Defense or Special Defense when calculating damage.
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


Comet Punch - Normal
1d6+3 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Comet Punch can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Comet Punch attack on that turn. When adding stats only add ½ Attack.
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


Confide - Normal
At-Will - 2
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Sound
The target’s Special Attack is lowered 1 Combat Stage.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 


Constrict - Normal
1d6+1 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Constrict lowers the target’s Speed 1 Combat Stage.
Tough - None - Torrential Appeal 





Conversion - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user becomes the elemental Type of their choice as long as they have a Move that is the same elemental Type until the end of the encounter. Replace all other Types.
Beauty - 1d4 - Catching Up 


Conversion2 - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: 1 Target
The user becomes the elemental Type of their choice as long as the Type resists the elemental Type of the Move it last took damage from until the end of the encounter. Replace all other Types.
Beauty - 1d4 - Catching Up 


Copycat - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target
Use the Move the target has used on their last turn. You may choose new targets for the Move. Copycat cannot miss.
Cool - None - Attention Grabber 


Covet - Normal
2d10+8 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Covet takes the target’s held item and attaches it to Covet’s user, if the user is not holding anything.
Cute - None - Attention Grabber 







Crush Claw - Normal
3d10+12 EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Crush Claw lowers the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 11-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Crush Grip - Normal
5d12+18 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
For every 10% the target is below their full HP, Crush Grip’s Damage Dice Roll is reduced by 1d12 to a minimum of 20.
Tough - 2d4 - Final Appeal


Cut - Normal
2d8+6 - At-Will - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Defense Curl - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Defense Curl raises the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage. If the user uses the Move Ice Ball or Rollout later in the encounter without having been switched out, each hit deals an additional 1d12+4 during Damage Dice Roll. The extra damage bonus for Ice Ball or Rollout does not stack.
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 










Disable - Normal
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Name a Move. For the remainder of the encounter, the target may not use that Move; the Move is considered Disabled. A target may not have more then 1 Move Disabled, if a new move is Disabled, the last Disabled Move is no longer Disabled.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Dizzy Punch - Normal
3d8+10 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
The target is Pushed 2-meters. Dizzy Punch Confuses the target on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - None - Inversed Appeal 


Double Hit - Normal
1d12+6 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Double Hit can hit up to 2 times. If Double Hit misses its first target, you may still use it a second time.
Smart - 2d4 - Reliable 



















Double Team - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user makes three copies of themselves and places them into the encounter adjacent to the user. The user must place some sign under the token of the original copy to mark it as the original. If a copy is hit by a damaging Move, it is destroyed. If the original is hit by a damaging Move, all copies are destroyed. Any copy can perform a Move but the user is still only allowed one Move per turn. All copies may shift each turn. When the user and its copies are targeted by a Move, foes must roll +2 during Accuracy Check to hit for the remainder of the encounter. When a copy disappears, the user loses 1d6 HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance to HP lost. Do not apply stats to HP lost.
Cool - 2d4 - Reliable 


Double-Edge - Normal
5d12+18 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push, Recoil 1/3
The target is pushed back 5-meters. The target takes an additional 1d12 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d12. After Double-Edge deals damage, Recoil.
Tough - None - Big Show 


Double Slap - Normal
1d6+1 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Double Slap can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Double Slap attack on that turn. 
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 




Echoed Voice - Normal
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Sound
For every consecutive use of Echoed Voice, add 1d20 to its Damage Dice Roll to a maximum of 5d20. Consecutive uses of Echoed Voice can be used across different Pokemon. If Echoed Voice is not used at least once every turn, the consecutive uses of Echoed Voice reset.
Smart - 2d4 - Reliable


Egg Bomb - Normal
4d12+16 - Battle - 6
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Egg Bomb creates a 2-meter Blast.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Encore - Normal
Center - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
The target must use the same Move that it most recently used for the next 1d2+1 turns. If the Frequency of the move doesn’t allow the Move to be used so often, the target instead cannot use a Move.
Cute - 1d4 - Good Show! 


Endeavor - Normal
Center - 2
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
The target’s HP is set to equal the user’s HP if the user’s current HP is less then the target’s current HP. If the user’s HP is equal to or greater than the target’s HP nothing happens.
Tough - 2d4 - Final Appeal 





Endure - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Intercept
If the user is being hit by a damaging Move, you may use Endure. If the Move would bring Endure’s user down to 0 HP or less, Endure’s user instead is set to 1 HP.
Tough - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Entrainment - Normal
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Entrainment changes one of the target’s abilities into one Ability that the user has for 1d4+1 turns.
Cute - 1d4 - Catching Up  


Explosion - Normal
6d20+55 - Center - 2
Attack - Ranged (7)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Explosion creates a 7-meter Burst. The user’s HP is set to -50% of their full HP. If the user is above Loyalty 1, their Loyalty is lowered at least 1 stage.
Beauty - None - Big Show 


Extremespeed - Normal
3d10+12 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Interrupt
If a foe wants to declare a Move, you may instead use Extremespeed on their turn before they can use their Move. Extremespeed may not be Interrupted. After the user finishes the damage step of their turn, they may shift again.
Cool - 2d4 - Quick Set 






Façade - Normal
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee 
Effect: 1 Target
If the user is afflicted with a Status effect, use an additional 4d12 during Damage Dice Roll. If the user is afflicted with a Status effect, Façade’s Frequency drops (EOT to Battle or At-Will to EOT).
Cute - 2d4 - Final Appeal 


Fake Out - Normal
1d12+6 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
You may only use Fake Out at the beginning of an encounter, as an Interrupt. Fake Out Flinches the target. 
Cute - 2d4 - Round Starter 


False Swipe - Normal
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
If False Swipe would lower the target to 0 HP or less, the target is instead set to 1 HP unless the target was already below 0 HP.
Cool - None - Inversed Appeal 


Feint - Normal
1d10+4 - Center - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
Feint may only Interrupt Intercepts. If used as an Interrupt, the target flips a coin, if they win the flip, they may retain the use of their Intercept for the encounter as if they did not use it during the encounter. If the target loses the flip, they use up their Intercept. Feint ignores all Intercept effects, dealing damage as if the Intercept was not used.
Beauty - None - Inverse Appeal 



Flail - Normal
See Effect - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the user has more than 70% of its total HP, use 1d10+5 for Damage Dice Roll. If the user has more than 36% of its total HP, use 2d10+10. If the user has more than 21% of its total HP, use 3d10+10. If the user has more than 6% of its total HP, use 4d10+10. If the user has 1-5% of its total HP, use 5d10+20
Cute - 2d4 - Final Appeal 


Flash - Normal
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Flash creates a 4-meter Burst. Flash makes all Legal Targets need +1 to hit during Accuracy Checks.
Beauty - 1d4 - Unsettling 

*Grants: Glow

Focus Energy - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Coat
The user’s Moves are Critical Hits on 17-20. If a Move already has an extended Critical Hit range, Focus energy extends that range by -3. Focus Energy’s effect cannot be used more then once per encounter unless the user somehow loses the benefit of Focus Energy.
Cool - None - Get Ready! 


Follow Me - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Intercept
All Foes may only target the user when using a Move until the user is knocked out or switched out. This Effect lasts for one round of combat.
Cute - 2d4 - Scrambler 

Foresight - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user’s Normal-Type and Fighting-Type Moves can now hit and affect Ghost-Type targets. Foresight’s user is unaffected by the effects of Moves which make them have to roll higher during Accuracy Checks to hit. Targets may not use their Speed stat to modify Accuracy Checks. Foresight’s user can identify the real target using Double Team.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 


Frustration - Normal
4d12+16 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The user may only use Frustration if its Loyalty is level 0 or 1.
Cute - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Fury Attack - Normal
1d6+3 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Fury Attack can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Fury Attack attack on that turn. 
Cool - 2d4 - Reliable 


Fury Swipes - Normal
1d6+3 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Fury Swipes can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Fury Swipes attack on that turn.
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 





Giga Impact - Normal
7d10+28 - Center - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Burst, Exhaust 
Giga Impact creates a 3-meter Burst around the target. On Miss, Giga Impact deals the user’s Attack instead to all possible targets.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Glare - Normal
At-Will - 3
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target
Glare Paralyzes the target.
Tough - 2d4 - Excitement 


Growl - Normal
At-Will - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Growl creates a 5-meter Burst. Growl lowers all Legal Targets Attack 1 Combat Stage.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 


Growth - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage. If it is Sunny, double the amount of Combat Stages gained.
Beauty - None - Get Ready! 

*Grants: Inflatable

Guillotine - Normal
Center - 15
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The target is set to 0 HP.
Cool - None - Big Show 



Happy Hour - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal 


Harden - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage.
Tough - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Headbutt - Normal
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Headbutt Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Head Charge - Normal
5d12+18 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push, Recoil 1/4
The target is Pushed back 5-meters. The target takes an additional 1d12 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d12. After Head Charge deals damage, Recoil.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Heal Bell - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Heal Bell creates a 3-meter Burst. All targets are cured of any Status ailments. Heal Bell cannot miss. 
Beauty - None - Reflective Appeal



Helping Hand - Normal
EOT - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The ally targeted with Helping Hand will have their next Move deal an additional 1d20 if the Move has a Damage Dice Roll. Helping Hand cannot miss.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 


Hidden Power - Normal
See Effect - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Hidden Power makes a 3-meter Burst. When a pokemon first obtains the Move Hidden Power, roll 1d4 and 1d20. For the 1d4 roll, a result of 1 makes Hidden Power’s Damage Dice Roll 1d12+6; a result of 2 makes the Damage Dice Roll 2d8+6; a result of 3 makes the Damage Dice Roll 2d10+8; a result of 4 makes the Damage Dice Roll 3d8+10. For the 1d20 roll, Hidden Power’s Elemental Type will be changed from Normal to Bug on a result of 1; Dark on 2; Dragon on 3; Electric on 4; Fairy on 5; Fighting on 6; Fire on 7; Flying on 8; Ghost on 9; Grass on 10; Ground on 11; Ice on 12; Normal on 13; Poison on 14; Psychic on 15; Rock on 16; Steel on 17; Water on 18; and on a result of 19-20, reroll the d20. Those become the Hidden Power’s permanent stats for that user. 
Smart - 1d4 - Catching Up 


Hold Back - Normal
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If Hold Back would lower the target to 0 HP or less, the target is instead set to 1 HP unless the target was already below 0 HP.
Cool - None - Inversed Appeal 


 
Horn Attack - Normal
3d8+10 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Horn Drill - Normal
Center - 15
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The target is set to 0 HP.
Cool - None - Big Show 


Howl - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat stage.
Cool - None - Get Ready! 


Hyper Beam - Normal
7d10+28 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Exhaust 
Hyper Beam creates a Column 1 meter wide. On Miss, Hyper Beam deals the user’s Special Attack instead to all possible targets.
Cool - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Hyper Fang - Normal
3d10+12 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Hyper Fang Flinches the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender









Hyper Voice - Normal
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Push, Sound
Hyper Voice creates a Column 4-meters wide. All Legal Targets are Pushed back 3-meters.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Judgment - Normal
4d12+16 - Center - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (25)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Judgement makes a 5-meter Blast. Judgment’s Type can be whatever Elemental Type the user wants it to be. 
Smart - 2d4 - Scrambler 


Last Resort - Normal
6d12+22 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Last Resort can only be used after the user has performed 6 other different Moves.
Cute - 2d4 - Torrential Appeal 

  
Leer - Normal
At-Will - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target
The target’s Defense is lowered 1 Combat Stage.
Cool - 2d4 - Excitement 


Lock-On - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (25)
Effect: 1 Target
The target is Locked-On. The next Move that the User uses against the Target that requires an Accuracy Check cannot miss. Lock-On’s effect, on both the User and Target, can be affected by Baton Pass.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 

Lovely Kiss - Normal
Battle - 2
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The target falls Asleep.
Beauty - 2d4 - Excitement 

 
Lucky Chant - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Lucky Chant creates a 4-meter Burst. All allies in the Burst, including the user, take damage from Critical Hits as if they are not Critical Hits for 1d4+1 turns.
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Me First - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
If the target declares a Move that has a Damage Dice Roll and Me First’s user has a higher Speed stat then the target, you may Interrupt with Me First. Me First will use the same Move the target was about to use on that target.
Cute - 2d4 - Quick Set 


Mean Look - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
The target may not flee or be switched until it is knocked out, for the remainder of the encounter.
Beauty - 2d4 - Unsettling 










Mega Kick - Normal
5d12+18 - Center - 6
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push
The target is Pushed 6-meters. The target takes an additional 1d12 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d12.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Mega Punch - Normal
3d10+12 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Metronome - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Metronome randomly uses any other Move except for After You, Assist, Bestow, Copycat, Counter, Covet, Destiny Bond, Detect, Endure, Feint, Focus Punch, Follow Me, Helping Hand, Metronome, Me First, Mimic, Mirror Coat, Mirror Move, Protect, Quash Quick Guard, Rage Powder, Sketch, Sleep Talk, Snatch, Snore, Switcheroo, Thief, Transform, Trick, Wide Guard. The GM helps to pick the random Move.
Cute - 2d4 - Scrambler 


Milk Drink - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The target regains HP equal to half of its full HP. The user may target themselves with Milk Drink.
Cute - None - Reflective Appeal 






Mimic - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target
Choose a Move that the target has used during the encounter. For the remainder of the encounter, that Move replaces Mimic on the user’s Move List. Mimic cannot miss.
Cute - None - Attention Grabber 


Mind Reader - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
The target is Locked-On. The next Move that the User uses against the Target that requires an Accuracy Check cannot miss. Mind Reader’s effect, on both the User and Target, can be affected by Baton Pass.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 


Minimize - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Foes need an additional +4 during Accuracy Check to hit Minimize’s user and the user’s size is lowered one level for the remainder of the encounter (Gigantic to Huge, to Large, to Medium to Small). 
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

*Grants: Shrinkable

Morning Sun - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user regains HP equal to half of its full HP. If it is Sunny, the user gains 2/3 of its full HP. If it is Rainy, Sand Storming or Hailing the user gains ¼ of their full HP. 
Beauty - None - Reflective Appeal 



Natural Gift - Normal
See Effect - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Berry
Refer to the Move Keywords Berry list. Natural Gift deals damage according to the Berry list and Natural Gift’s Type is also defined there. The user’s Berry is destroyed and is not consumed.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 

*Grants: Sprouter

Nature Power - Normal
See Effect - EOT - See Effect 
See Effect
Effect: Environ
Nature Power uses a Move defined by Environ. If the Move’s Frequency is Battle or Center, Nature Power may not be used for the remainder of the encounter.
Beauty - 2d4 - Scrambler 

*Grants: Sprouter

Noble Roar - Normal
At-Will - 2
Effect - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Noble Roar creates a 3-meter Burst. Noble Roar lowers all Legal Targets Attack 1 Combat Stage and Special Attack 1 Combat Stage.
Beauty - 2d4 - Excitement 
















Odor Sleuth - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Ranged
Effect: 1 Target
The user’s Normal-Type and Fighting-Type Moves can now hit and affect Ghost-Type targets. Odor Sleuth’s user is unaffected by the effects of Moves which make them have to roll higher during Accuracy Checks to hit. Targets may not use their Speed stat to modify Accuracy Checks. Odor Sleuth’s user can identify the real target using Double Team.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 

*Grants: Tracker

Pain Split - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
Add the user’s and the target’s current HP together and divide the value by 2, calling the result X. The user and target’s HP are set to X. If X exceeds a target’s or user’s full HP, the excess is ignored and they are set to full HP. 
Smart - 2d4 - Unsettling 


Pay Day - Normal
1d12+6 - Center - 2
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Pay Day scatters metal coins equal in value to 1d8 times the user’s level. If it is a trainer battle, the winner of the battle gets to pick up the coins.
Smart - 1d4 - Catching Up 











Perish Song - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (15)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Perish Song creates a 15-meter Burst. Perish Song cannot miss. Perish Song can affect only pokemon. All targets, including the user, receive a Perish Count of 3. At the beginning of each of the target’s turns, their Perish count is lowered by 1. Once a Perish Count reaches 0, set the pokemon’s HP to 0.  A Perish Count disspears if a Pokemon returns to their Poke Ball or is knocked out.
Beauty - 2d4 - Unsettling 


Play Nice - Normal
At-Will - 2
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
The target’s Attack is lowered 1 Combat Stage.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 


Pound - Normal
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Present - Normal
See Effect - EOT - 3
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Roll 1d4. On a result of 1, use 1d10+10 for Present’s Damage Dice Roll; on a result of 2, use 2d10+10; on a result of 3, use 3d10+10; on a result of 4 the target is healed 65 HP.
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal 







Protect - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Intercept
If the user is hit by a Move, instead you are not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects.
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal 


Psych Up - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
The user’s Combat Stages are changed to match the target’s Combat Stages. Psych Up cannot miss. 
Smart - None - Get Ready! 


Quick Attack - Normal
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
If a foe wants to declare a Move, you may instead use Quick Attack on their turn before they can use their Move. 
Cool - 2d4 - Quick Set 


Rage - Normal
1d6+3 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Spirit Surge
The user’s Attack is raised 1 Combat Stage as long as they used Rage on their previous turn. If the user is damaged by an attack before it’s next turn, its Attack is raised 1 Combat Stage.
Cool - None - Get Ready! 


 






Rapid Spin - Normal
1d6+3 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
On hit, Rapid Spin destroys Hazards within 5 meters, removes Leech Seeds, and removes the user’s Trapped status.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Razor Wind - Normal
3d10+12 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target
Once you declare the use of Razor Wind, the user’s turn ends. On its next turn, the user may shift and use Razor Wind’s damage. Razor Wind is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 1d4 - Special Attention 


Recover - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user regains HP equal to half of its full HP.
Smart - None - Reflective Appeal 


Recycle - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The effect of a consumable item used earlier in the encounter is used again as if it had not been destroyed. The item is still gone.
Smart - None - Attention Grabber 










Reflect Type - Normal
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Reflect Type changes one of the user’s Types into one Type of your choice that the target has for 1d4+1 turns. 
Beauty - None - Attention Grabber 


Refresh - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user is cured of all Status ailments.
Cute - None - Reflective Appeal 


Relic Song - Normal
3d12+12 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Relic Song creates a 4-meter Burst. All Legal Targets fall Asleep on 16-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Excitement 


Retaliate - Normal
3d8+10 - Center - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Retaliate deals an additional 5d12 during Damage Dice Roll if an ally has been lowered to 0 HP or less by the target’s Moves or Features during the last 2 rounds of combat.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect


Return - Normal
4d12+16 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The user may only use Return if its Loyalty is 3 or 4.
Cute - 1d4 - Round Starter 



Roar - Normal
Battle - 11
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Sound
The target flees away from the user 15 meters, ignoring Speed Capabilities, if terrain allows. The target may not use Moves for 4 rounds. During a trainer battle, the target’s owner must recall the fleeing target and replace them.
Cool - 2d4 - Excitement 


Rock Climb - Normal
3d12+14 - EOT - 5
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Rock Climb Confuses the target on 17-20 during Accuracy Checks.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Round - Normal
2d10+8 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Round creates a 3-meter Burst. The next Pokemon who uses Round during this round of Combat uses 20+2d10 for Round’s Damage Dice Roll. The third or any use after the third use of Round during this round of Combat uses 30+3d10 for Round’s Damage Dice Roll.
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


Safeguard - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Ranged (2)
Effect: No Target, Wall
Place 10-meters of Wall. If the effect of a Move that targets through any Walls of Safeguard cause a Status Affliction, they cannot cause a Status Affliction. The Walls sustain for 5 rounds.
Beauty - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 



Scary Face - Normal
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
The target’s Speed is lowered 2 Combat Stages.
Tough - 2d4 - Slow Set 


Scratch - Normal
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Screech - Normal
EOT - 4
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Screech creates a 4-meter Burst. All Legal Targets have their Defense lowered 2 Combat Stages. 
Smart - 2d4 - Unsettling 


Secret Power - Normal
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Environ
Secret Power’s effect depends on Environ. Secret Power’s effect activates on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Scrambler 

*Grants: Sprouter

Selfdestruct - Normal
10d10+46 - Center - 2
Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Selfdestruct creates a 4-meter Burst. The user’s HP is set to -50% of their full HP. If the user is above Loyalty 1, their Loyalty is lowered at least 1 stage.
Beauty - None - Big Show 



Sharpen - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: 1 Target
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage.
Cute - None - Get Ready! 


Shell Smash - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Attack 2 Combat Stages, raise the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages and raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages Lower the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage and lower the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage. 
Tough - None - Get Ready! 


Simple Beam - Normal
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (7)
Effect: 1 Target
Simple Beam changes one of the target’s abilities to Simple for the remainder of the encounter.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect


Sing - Normal
Battle - 11
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Sing creates a 4-meter Burst. All Legal Targets fall Asleep.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 












Sketch - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (25)
Effect: 1 Target
Sketch cannot miss. Once Sketch has been used, remove Sketch from the user’s Move list. The last Move that the target used is added to the user’s Move list permanently. Sketch may not be Interrupted or Intercepted.
Smart - 1d4 - Catching Up 


Skull Bash - Normal
4d12+16 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push, Set Up
Once you declare the use of Skull Bash, the user’s turn ends. On its next turn, the user may shift and use Skull Bash’s damage and effect. The target is Pushed 4-meters. The target takes an additional 1d12 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d12.
Tough - 1d4 - Special Attention 

 
Slack Off - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user regains HP equal to half of its full HP.
Cute - None - Reflective Appeal 


Slam - Normal
3d10+12 - EOT - 6
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 







Slash - Normal
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Slash is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Sleep Talk - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user randomly uses one of their other Moves, ignoring Frequencies. Sleep Talk can only be used while the user is Asleep.
Cute - 3d4 - No Effect 


Smelling Salts - Normal
2d10+8 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the target is Paralyzed, Smelling Salts does an additional 5d10 for Damage Dice Roll and cures the target of Paralysis.
Smart - None - Unsettling 


Smokescreen - Normal
EOT - None
Effect - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Wall
Place 5-meters of Wall. Smokescreen’s Walls must be placed within 3-meters of the user. If anyone’s Move tries to target through a Smokescreen wall, they must roll +3 during Accuracy Check to hit. The walls remain for 5 rounds. Brick Break cannot break Smokescreen’s Walls.
Smart - 2d4 - Unsettling 






Snore - Normal
1d12+6 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Snore creates a 5-meter Burst. Snore Flinches all legal targets on 15-20 during Accuracy Check. Snore can only be used by a Sleeping pokemon.
Cute - 3d4 - No Effect 


Softboiled - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The target regains HP equal to half of its full HP. The user may target themselves with Softboiled.
Beauty - None - Reflective Appeal 


Sonicboom - Normal
15 - EOT - 6
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Sonicboom creates a Column 1 meter wide. Sonicboom always deals 15 points of Damage. Do not apply weakness or resistance. Do not apply stats.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Spike Cannon - Normal
1d6+3 - EOT - 4
Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Spike Cannon can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Spike Cannon attack on that turn. When adding stats only add ½ Attack.
Cool - 2d4 - Reliable 








Spit Up - Normal
See Effect - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
If the user is Stockpiled 1, use 3d10+12 for Spit Up’s Damage Dice Roll; if the user is Stockpiled 2, use 4d12+16; if the user is Stockpiled 3, use 5d12+18. After using Spit Up, the user’s Stockpiled count is set to 0. If the user has no Stockpiled count, Spit Up does nothing.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Splash - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal 


Stockpile - Normal
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user adds 1 to their Stockpiled count to a maximum of 3. For each number a Stockpiled count is above 0, raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage. If a Stockpiled count is set to 0, the Combat Stages gained from the Stockpiled count are removed.
Tough - None - Get Ready! 

*Grants: Inflatable
   
Stomp - Normal
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Stomp Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check. If the target is Small, Stomp deals an additional 1d10.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


  

Strength - Normal
3d10+12 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
The target is Pushed 8-meters.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 

*Grants: +1 Power
   
Substitute - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Coat
The user loses ¼ of their full HP. A Coat is made which has HP equal to the HP lost when using this Move +1. If the user would be hit by a Move, instead the Coat gets hit. Apply weakness, resistance and stats to the Coat.  The Coat is immune to Status Afflictions. Substitute cannot be used if the user has less then ¼ of their full HP. Sound Moves ignore Substitute.
Smart - 1d4 - Catching Up 


Super Fang - Normal
Battle - 4
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The target’s HP is halved. Do not apply weakness or resistance to the HP lost. Do not apply stats to the HP lost. When halving the target’s HP with Super Fang, round up.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Supersonic - Normal
EOT - 11
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Sound
Supersonic creates a Column 1 meter wide. Supersonic Confuses all Legal Targets.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 





Swagger - Normal
EOT - 4
Effect - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
The target’s Attack is raised 2 Combat Stages. Swagger Confuses the target.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 


Swallow - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
If the user is Stockpiled 1, they are healed 25% of their full HP; if the user is Stockpiled 2, they are healed half of their full HP; if the user is Stockpiled 3, they are healed back to full HP. After using Swallow, the user’s Stockpiled count is set to 0. If the user has no Stockpiled count, Swallow does nothing.
Tough - None - Reflective Appeal 



Sweet Scent - Normal
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Sweet Scent creates a 5-meter Burst. For the remainder of the encounter, when targeting any Legal Targets that were hit by Sweet Scent, you need -2 to hit that target during Accuracy Check.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 

*Grants: Alluring

Swift - Normal
2d10+8 - EOT - None
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Swift cannot Miss.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 







Swords Dance - Normal
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user’s Attack is raised 2 Combat Stages.
Beauty - None - Get Ready! 


Tackle - Normal
2d8+6 - At-Will - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Tail Slap - Normal
1d10+4 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Tail Slap can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Tail Slap attack on that turn. 
Cute - 2d4 - Reliable


Tail Whip - Normal
At-Will - 2
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
The target’s Defense is lowered 1 Combat Stage.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 


Take Down - Normal
3d12+14 - EOT - 5
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Recoil 1/4
After Take Down deals damage, Recoil.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 







Techno Blast - Normal
3d12+18 - Center - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target 
Techno Blast’s Type can be any Type while holding the appropriate Drive item or Plate item.
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Teeter Dance - Normal
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (7)
Effect: No target, Burst
Teeter Dance creates a 7-meter Burst. Teeter Dance Confuses all Legal Targets.
Cute - 2d4 - Scrambler 


Thrash - Normal
5d12+18 - Center - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 target
Thrash’s user must make another Melee attack for 1d2 more turns. The attack is identical to Thrash except for Thrash’s effect. After the first target is declared, Thrash targets the nearest Legal Target for its second or third round of use if the original target is unconscious. If potential targets are an equal distance from the user, you may choose the target. After Thrash’s additional use(s) end(s), the user becomes Confused. For Pokemon users, the additional 1d2 are their Trainer’s Command Actions, unless the Trainer is unconscious, in which case the Pokemon acts on its own until finished.
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


Tickle - Normal
EOT - 2
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Lower the target’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and lower the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 

Transform - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (25)
Effect: No Target
The user assumes the form of the Pokemon-target gaining its type(s) and learns all of that specific target’s Moves, gains its Abilitys, copies its weight and height and Capabilties for the remainder of the encounter, or until the user chooses to revert to its original form, or until the user uses Transform to change into something else. The user’s Stats do not change. Transform cannot miss.
Smart - 1d4 - Catching Up 


Tri Attack - Normal
3d10+12 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 target
Tri Attack gives the target a Status ailment on 17-20 during Accuracy Check. If you rolled 17-20, roll 1d4; on 2 the target is Paralyzed; on 3 the target is Burned; on 4 the target is Frozen; on 1 reroll the die.
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect 


Trump Card - Normal
See Effect - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
If the user has only used Trump Card once this encounter, use 1d10+4 for Trump Card’s Damage Dice Roll. If it is the second time the user is using Trump Card, use 1d10+4. If it is the third time the user is using Trump Card, use 1d12+6. If it is the fourth time the user is using Trump Card, use 2d10+8. If it is the fifth time the user is using Trump Card, use 7d10+28 and Trump Card’s Frequency changes to Center for the rest of the encounter. 
Cool - None - Round Starter 




Uproar - Normal
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Uproar creates a 5-meter Burst that continues for 1d4+1 turns. At the beginning of the user’s turn where Uproar is continuing, they may shift then must immediately use Uproar again. Anyone in Uproar’s Burst on any turn Uproar is continuing is cured of Sleep.
Cute - 2d4 - Unsettling 


Vicegrip - Normal
2d10+8 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Weather Ball - Normal
2d8+6 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
If it is Sunny, Weather Ball is Fire-Type. If it is Rainy, Weather Ball is Water-Type. If it is Hailing, Weather Ball is Ice-Type. If it is Sandstorming, Weather Ball is Rock-Type. When a weather effect is on the field, Weather Ball’s Damage Dice Roll is 4d12+16. If there are multiple Weather Effects on the field, choose one type for Weather Ball to be that corresponds with an existing Weather Effect.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 













Whirlwind - Normal
Center - 2
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Push
The target is Pushed 40-meters expelling them from the encounter if the terrain allows. They may still rejoin the encounter if they want to. During a trainer battle, the target’s owner must recall the Pushed target and replace them.
Smart - None - Big Show 


Wish - Normal
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target
At the end of the target’s next turn, the target regains HP equal to half of its full HP. If the user targets themselves and are replaced in battle, the replacement is healed.
Cute - None - Reflective Appeal 


Work Up - Normal
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage.
Tough - None - Get Ready! 


Wrap - Normal
1d6+3 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Trap
Wrap Traps the target and the user for 1d4+1 turns. At the beginning of the target’s turn, if the target is Trapped, roll 1d12 and the target loses that much HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance to the HP lost. Do not apply stats to the HP lost. Wrap may not trap more then one target at a time unless the user is Huge or Gigantic. 
Tough - None - Torrential Appeal

Wring Out - Normal
5d12+18 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
For every 10% the target is below their full HP, Wring Out’s Damage Dice Roll is reduced by 1d12 to a minimum of 18.
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Yawn - Normal
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Yawn creates a 4-meter Burst. All targets fall Asleep at the end of their next turn. Yawn cannot miss.
Cute - 2d4 - Excitement 


Poison Moves
Acid - Poison
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
Acid lowers the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 


Acid Armor - Poison
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Defense 2 Combat Stages.
Tough - None - Get Ready! 


Acid Spray - Poison
1d12+6 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Acid Spray creates a Column 1 meter wide. Acid Spray lowers all Legal Targets’ Special Defense 2 Combat Stages.
Smart - 2d4 - Unsettling 

Belch - Poison
5d10+25 - Center - 3
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: 1 Target
Belch can only be used if the user has eaten a Berry they were holding during the same encounter.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect

 
Clear Smog - Poison
2d8+6 - Battle - None
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target 
The target’s Combat Stages are reset to 0. 
Smart - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

 
Coil - Poison
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage. For the remainder of Combat, the user needs -1 on Accuracy Checks to hit.
Cute - None - Get Ready! 



Cross Poison - Poison
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Cross Poison is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check. Cross Poison Poisons the target on a Critical Hit during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 











Gastro Acid - Poison
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
The target’s ability is disabled until the end of the encounter. If the target has more then one ability, Gastro Acid disables one of them.
Beauty - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Gunk Shot - Poison
5d12+18 - Center - 7
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: Target Area, Blast
Gunk Shot creates a 3-meter Blast. Gunk Shot Poisons all Legal Targets on 11-20 during Accuracy Check. On Miss, Gunk Shot deals the user’s Special Attack to potential targets but cannot Poison.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 


Poison Fang - Poison
2d8+6 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Poison Fang Badly Poisons the target on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Poison Gas - Poison
EOT - 6
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Poison Gas makes a 4-meter Burst. Poison Gas Poisons all Legal Targets.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 


Poison Jab - Poison
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Poison Jab Poisons the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Poison Sting - Poison
1d6+3 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
Poison Sting Poisons the target on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Poison Tail - Poison
2d8+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Poison Tail is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check. Poison Tail Poisons the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Poisonpowder - Poison
EOT - 6
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Poisonpowder creates a 1-meter Blast. Poisonpowder Poisons all Legal Targets.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Sludge - Poison
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Sludge creates a Column 2-meters wide. Sludge poisons all Legal Targets on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Sludge Bomb - Poison
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Sludge Bomb creates a 3-meter Blast. Sludge Bomb poisons all Legal Targets on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 



Sludge Wave - Poison
4d12+16 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
Sludge Wave makes a Column 4-meters wide. Slime Wave Poisons all legal targets on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect

 
Smog - Poison
1d6+3 - EOT - 5
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Smog creates a 3-meter Blast. Smog Poisons all Legal Targets on 13-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Toxic - Poison
Battle - 4
No Damage - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
The target is Badly Poisoned.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Toxic Spikes - Poison
EOT - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Hazard
Set 10 square meters of Toxic Spikes, all 10 meters must be adjacent with at least one other space of Toxic Spikes next to each other. Toxic Spikes Poisons a foe when moving onto or over the occupied spaces with an Overland Capability. If there are 2 Layers of Toxic Spikes on the same space, it Deadly Poisons the foes instead.
Smart - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 








Venom Drench - Poison
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
If the target is Poisoned, Venom Drench lowers the target’s Attack 1 Combat Stage, Special Attack 1 Combat Stage and Speed 1 Combat Stage.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Venoshock - Poison
3d8+10 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
If the target is Poisoned, Venoshock deals 5d12+22 instead during Damage Dice Roll.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Psychic Moves
Agility - Psychic
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages.
Cool - 2d4 - Quick Set 


Ally Switch - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
Choose one willing ally, shift the user’s position to the ally’s position and shift the ally’s position to the user’s position, trading places. If the ally was a target of a Move, the user is now the target. If the user was a target of a Move, the ally is now the target.
Cool - 2d4 - Scrambler








Amnesia - Psychic
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Special Defense 2 Combat Stages.
Cute - None - Get Ready! 


Barrier - Psychic
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Defense 2 Combat Stages.
Cool - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Calm Mind - Psychic
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage.
Smart - None - Get Ready! 


Confusion - Psychic
2d8+6 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target 
Confusion Confuses the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 


Cosmic Power - Psychic
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage.
Cool - None - Get Ready! 




Dream Eater - Psychic
4d12+16 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Dream Eater can only target someone Asleep. After the target takes damage, the user gains HP equal to half of the damage they dealt to the target.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 

*Grants: Dream Smoke

Extrasensory - Psychic
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target
Extrasensory Flinches the target on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Future Sight - Psychic
4d12+16 - Center - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Future Sight does nothing on the turn it is used. At the end of the second turn after Future Sight’s use, use Future Sight’s damage and effect. Future Sight creates a Column 1 meter wide, which starts from anywhere on the field. Future Sight is Typeless.
Smart - 2d4 - Round Starter


Gravity - Psychic
Battle - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 1d4+1 rounds, the area is considered Warped. While Warped, Moves that involve the user being airborne may not be used. Flying-Types and Pokemon with the Ability Levitate are no longer immune to Ground-Type Moves. All Accuracy Checks are lowered by -2. Warped does not replace other Weather effects.
Beauty - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

Guard Split - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Choose between Defense and Special Defense. The target reveals the value of whichever stat you chose, and then adds it to the user’s stat of the same choice. Divide the total by two and call the result X. For the remainder of the encounter, the target and the user’s stat that you chose is X.
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal 


Guard Swap - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The user trades all Combat Stages related to Defense and Special Defense with the target. It is okay for the user or the target to exchange Combat Stages, positive or negative, for none. Guard Swap cannot miss.
Cute - None - Inversed Appeal 


Heal Block - Psychic
EOT - 2
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
For 1d4+1 turns, the target may not gain HP by itself or be healed.
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 














Healing Wish - Psychic
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
If the user’s HP is lowered to 0 or less, you may use Healing Wish as an Intercept. The target is treated as if it had been healed at a Pokemon Center. Healing Wish may target a pokemon in a Poke Ball as long as they immediately join the encounter or are sent out. If the target knows Healing Wish or Lunar Dance, the user’s Healing Wish does not restore its Center Frequency.
Cute - None - Torrential Appeal 


Heal Pulse - Psychic
Center - None
Effect - Self (2)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Heal Pulse creates a 2-meter Burst. Restores 50% of all Legal Targets max HP. Heal Pulse does not target the user.
Beauty - None - Reflective Appeal 

*Grants: Aura

Heart Stamp - Psychic
2d10+8 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Heart Stamp Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cute - 3d4 - No Effect


Heart Swap - Psychic
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (25)
Effect: 2 Targets
The targets trade their Combat Stages, both positive and negative. 
Cool - None - Inversed Appeal 




Hypnosis - Psychic
Battle - 6
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
The target falls Asleep.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Imprison - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
The target is Locked. A Locked target may not use any Moves the user knows. Each user may only make 1 target Locked at a time. Using Imprison on a new target transfers Locked to the new target. Imprison cannot miss.
Smart - 1d4 - Good Show! 

 
Kinesis - Psychic
EOT - None
Effect - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Wall
Place 5-meters of Wall. If anyone’s Move tries to target through a Kinesis Wall, they must roll +3 during Accuracy Check to hit. The walls remain for 5 rounds. Brick Break cannot break Kinesis’ Walls.
Smart - None - Get Ready! 


Light Screen - Psychic
EOT - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: No Target, Wall
The user may shift while placing Light Screen Walls if their Speed allows for the extra movement. Place 5-meters of Wall. If a foe tries to target Light Screen’s user or the user’s allies through Light Screen Walls, treat the target as if their Special Defense is raised 2 Combat Stages. This bonus cannot be awarded more then once. The walls sustain for 1d4+1 turns.
Beauty - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Lunar Dance - Psychic
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (25)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
If the user’s HP is lowered to 0 or less, you may use Lunar Dance as an Intercept. The target is treated as if it had been healed at a Pokemon Center. Healing Wish may target a pokemon in a Poke Ball as long as they immediately join the encounter or are sent out. If the target knows Healing Wish or Lunar Dance, the user’s Lunar Dance does not restore its Center Frequency.
Beauty - None - Torrential Appeal 


Luster Purge - Psychic
3d8+10 - Center - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Blast
Luster Purge creates a Column 1 meter wide, Luster Purge creates a 5-meter Blast. Luster Purge lowers all Legal Targets Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 11-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Magic Coat - Psychic 
Center - None
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
If the user is about to get a hit by a Move that does not have a Damage Dice Roll, they may use Magic Coat as an Intercept. The Intercepted Move’s user is treated as if they were the target of their own Move.
Beauty - 2d4 - Final Appeal 










Magic Room - Psychic
Center - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 1d4+1 rounds, the area is considered Useless. While Useless, Pokemon may not use the effects of any Held items or activate any Held items. Useless does not replace other Weather effects.
Cute - 2d4 - Scrambler 


Meditate - Psychic
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage.
Beauty - None - Get Ready! 

 
Miracle Eye - Psychic
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user’s Psychic-Type Moves can now hit and affect Dark-Type targets. Miracle Eye’s user is unaffected by the effects of Moves which make them have to roll higher during Accuracy Checks to hit. Targets may not use their Speed stat to modify Accuracy Checks. Miracle Eye’s user can identify the real target using Double Team.
Cute - 1d4 - Good Show! 


Mirror Coat - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (20)
Effect: 1 Target, Intercept
If the user is being hit by a Move that consults Special Attack for damage, you may use Mirror Coat. If the user survives the hit, the target is dealt damage equal to twice the amount of damage the user received. Do not apply weakness, resistance or immunity. Do not apply stats.
Beauty - 2d4 - Final Appeal 

Mist Ball - Psychic
3d8+10 - Center - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Blast
Mist Ball creates a Column 1 meter wide and creates a 5-meter Blast. Mist Ball lowers all Legal Targets Special Attack 1 Combat Stage on 6-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Power Split - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
Choose between Attack and Special Attack. The target reveals the value of whichever stat you chose, and then adds it to the user’s stat of the same choice. Divide the total by two and call the result X. For the remainder of the encounter, the target and the user’s stat that you chose is X.
Beauty - None - Inverse Appeal 


Power Swap - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The user trades all Combat Stages related to Attack and Special Attack with the target. It is okay for the user or the target to exchange Combat Stages, positive or negative, for none. Power Swap cannot miss.
Beauty - None - Inverse Appeal 


Power Trick - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user’s Attack stat and Defense stat are switched for 1+1d8 rounds. 
Cool - None - Inversed Appeal 




Psybeam - Psychic
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (7)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Psybeam creates a Column 1 meter wide. Psybeam Confuses all Legal Targets on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter


Psychic - Psychic
3d12+14 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target, Push
The target is Pushed 5-meters in any direction. Psychic lowers the target’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Telekinetic

Psycho Boost - Psychic
6d12+22 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: Target Area, Blast
Psycho Boost creates a 4-meter Blast. Lower the user’s Special Attack 2 Combat Stages after damage.
Smart - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Psycho Cut - Psychic
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
Psycho Cut is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Starter 










Psycho Shift - Psychic
Center - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The user is cured of a Status ailment and the target is given that Status ailment. Psycho Shift cannot miss. Psycho Shift can only be used if the user has a Status ailment and the target does not have the status ailment that is being transferred.
Cool - None - Inversed Appeal 


Psyshock - Psychic
2d10+12 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target
When calculating damage, the target must use their Defense against Psyshock.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Psystrike - Psychic
4d12+16 - Center - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target 
When calculating damage, the target must use their Defense against Psystrike.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Psywave - Psychic
Battle - 5
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Psywave creates a Column 2-meters wide. Roll 1d4; on 1 and 2 all Legal Targets lose HP equal to half the user’s level; on 3, all Legal Targets lose HP equal to the user’s level; on 4 all Legal Targets lose HP equal to 1.5x the user’s level. Do not apply weakness, resistance or immunity. Do not apply stats.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect 





Reflect - Psychic
EOT - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: No Target, Wall
The user may shift while placing Reflect Walls if their Speed allows for the extra movement. Place 5-meters of Wall. If a foe tries to target Reflect’s user or the user’s allies within two meters of a Reflect Wall, treat the target as if their Defense is raised 2 Combat Stages. This bonus cannot be awarded more then once. The walls remain for 1d4+1 turns.
Smart - 2d4 - Excitement 


Rest - Psychic
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
The user’s HP is set to their full HP. The user is cured of any Status ailments. Then, the user falls Asleep. The user cannot make Sleep Checks at the beginning of their turn. They are cured of the Sleep at the end of their turn, in 2 rounds. 
Cute - None - Reflective Appeal 

     
Role Play - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Add on of the target’s Ability to the user’s Abilities for 1+1d8 rounds. Role Play cannot miss.
Cute - 1d4 - Catching Up

    
Skill Swap - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
The user loses their Abilities and gains the target’s Abilities for the remainder of encounter. The target loses their Abilities and gains the user’s Abilities for the remainder of the encounter.
Smart - None - Excitement 

Stored Power - Psychic
1d6+3 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
For every Combat Stage the user is above 0, in each stat, add 1d10 to Stored Power’s Damage Dice Roll.
Tough - 2d4 - Incentives 


Synchronoise - Psychic
3d8+12 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Synchronoise creates a 6-meter Burst. Synchronoise can only hit legal targets that share a type with Synchronoise’s user. 
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Telekinesis - Psychic
Battle - None 
Effect - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
For 1d4+1 turns, the target is immune to Ground-type Moves and whenever the target is targeted by a Move, the Move’s user needs -5 to hit. Telekinesis’ effect cannot stack, if a target is already under the effect of Telekinesis, the newest successful instance of Telekinesis replaces the old one.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect

*Grants: Telekinetic














Teleport - Psychic
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Intercept
Teleport can be used as an Intercept at any time. If used as an Intercept, roll 1d20 and if you don’t roll 7 or higher, Teleport fails to activate. The user can shift 1d10+10 meters. They can move through blocking terrain and hindering terrain as if it is regular terrain. Moves that targeted Teleport’s user continues through the desired target’s space if the Move allows for it. If Teleport fails when used as an Intercept, treat it as if you did not use it for purposes of Frequency.
Cool - 2d4 - Quick Set 


Trick - Psychic
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 2 Targets
Both targets must be hit for Trick to succeed. If Trick targets the user, you do not need to roll an Accuracy Check for the user. Both targets lose their Held Item, and gain the other target’s Held Item. If a target has no Held Item, the still can gain the other target’s Held Item.
Smart - None - Attention Grabber


Trick Room - Psychic
Center - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 1d4+1 rounds, the area is considered Rewinding. While Rewinding, the order in which combatants go during a round of Combat isn’t ordered from highest Speed to lowest Speed; instead it is order from lowest Speed to Highest Speed. Rewinding does not replace other Weather effects.
Cute - 2d4 - Scrambler 


 


Wonder Room - Psychic
Center - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 1d4+1 rounds, the area is considered Wondered. While Wondered, each individual Pokemon’s Defense and Special Defense are switched. Wondered does not replace other Weather effects.
Cute - 2d4 - Scrambler

 
Zen Headbutt - Psychic
3d10+12 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Zen Headbutt Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Rock Moves
Ancientpower - Rock
2d10+8 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Column, Spirit Surge
Ancientpower creates a Column that is 2-meters wide. If you rolled 11-20 during Accuracy Check for Ancientpower, the user has each of its stats raised 1 Combat Stage. If you rolled 16-20 on the Accuracy Roll, all allies in the Column also have each of their stats raised 1 Combat Stage and are not damaged by Ancientpower.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Head Smash - Rock
7d10+28 - Battle - 5
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Push, Recoil 1/2
The target is pushed back 5-meters. The target takes an additional 1d12 if it is Pushed into Blocking Terrain. If the target is pushed into another Legal Target, instead, both take 1d12. After Head Smash deals damage, Recoil.
Tough - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 

Power Gem - Rock
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Beauty - 3d4 - No Effect 


Rock Blast - Rock
1d10+4 - EOT - 5
Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter, Trap
Rock Blast can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Rock Blast attack on that turn. 
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 

*Grants: Materializer

Rock Polish - Rock
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Rock Slide - Rock
3d10+12 - Battle - 4
Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Rock Slide creates a Column 4-meters wide. Rock Slide Flinches all Legal Targets on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


Rock Throw - Rock
2d8+6 - EOT - 4
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 







Rock Tomb - Rock
2d8+6 - Battle - 5
Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Blast
Rock Tomb creates a 3-meter Blast. Rock Tomb lowers all Legal Targets Speed 1 Combat Stage. 
Smart - 2d4 - Slow Set 

*Grants: Materializer
 
Rock Wrecker - Rock
7d10+28 - Center - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass, Exhaust 
On Miss, Rock Wrecker deals the user’s Attack instead to all possible targets.
Tough - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 

*Grants: Materializer
 
Rollout - Rock
1d10+4 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
The user must use Rollout until it misses, or fails to be able to shift enough to hit a target for their next 4 turns. On the second turn, Rollout uses 2d10+8 for its Damage Dice Roll. On the third turn, Rollout uses 2d10+12. On the fourth turn, Rollout uses 3d10+16. On the fifth and final turn, Rollout uses 4d10+10.
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


Sandstorm - Rock
Battle - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 1d4+1 rounds, the area is considered Sandstorming. At the beginning of each round, all non-Ground, Rock, or Steel Type Pokemon lose 1/16th of their full HP. Rock Type Pokemon are treated as if their Special Defense is raised 2 Combat Stages while Sandstorming.
Tough - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

Smack Down - Rock
2d8+6 - Battle - 2
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
If the target is Flying-type or is floating because of Magnet Rise, Telekenisis, or Levitate, then the target is no longer immune to Ground-type Moves for 1d4+1 turns.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect


Stealth Rock - Rock
Battle - None
Field - Effect
Effect: No Target, Hazard
Set 5 square meters of Stealth Rock, “Rocks.” All 5 Rocks must be adjacent with at least one other space of Rocks next to each other. If a foe moves within 10 meters of a space occupied by Rocks, move at most one Rock to the offender, then destory the Rock. When that happens, Stealth Rock causes a foe to lose 1/8th of their full HP. Stealth Rock is considered to be dealing damage. Apply Weakness and Resistance. Do not apply stats. A Pokemon who has been hit by a Stealth Rock Hazard cannot get hit by another in the same encounter until it is returned to a Poke Ball and then sent back out.
Cool - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

*Grants: Materializer
 
Stone Edge - Rock
4d12+16 - Battle - 5
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Stone Edge is a Critical Hit on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 2d4 - Incentives 


 




Wide Guard - Rock
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Intercept
If a foe uses Move that hits multiple targets and Wide Guard’s user is one of the targets you may use Wide Guard as an Interrupt. If a Move would hit the user and one of the user’s allies, the Move only hits Wide Guard’s user. If the user is hit by a Move this way, the user does not take any damage and is not affected by any other effects the Move has. This Effect lasts for one turn.
Tough - None - Inversed Appeal


Steel Moves
Autotomize - Steel
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
For the remainder of the Encounter, the user’s Wieght Class is one value lower, to a minimum of 1. Raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages.
Smart - None - Get Ready!


Bullet Punch - Steel
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
If a foe wants to declare a Move, you may instead use Bullet Punch on their turn before they can use their Move. 
Smart - 2d4 - Quick Set 













Doom Desire - Steel
6d12+22 - Center - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Doom Desire does nothing on the turn it is used. At the end of the second turn after Doom Desire’s use, use Doom Desire’s damage and effect. Doom Desire creates a Column 1 meter wide, which starts from anywhere on the field. Doom Desire is Typeless.
Cool - 2d4 - Interrupting Appeal 


Flash Cannon - Steel
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Flash Cannon lowers the target’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Gear Grind - Steel
2d8+6 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter
Gear Grind can hit up to 2 times. If Gear Grind misses its first target, you may still use it a second time.
Cool - 2d4 - Reliable


Gyro Ball - Steel
1d12+6 - Center - None
Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
For every 10 Speed the target is above the user, add 1d12 to the Damage dice Roll. Gyro Ball cannot miss. 
Beauty - 2d4 - Final Appeal 








Heavy Slam - Steel
 See Effect - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target
If the user is in the same Weight Class as the target, use 1d10 for Damage Dice Roll; if the user is one Weight Class higher than the target, use 1d10+10; if the user is two Weight Classes higher than the target, use 2d12+12; if three classes, 3d10+14; if four classes, 5d10+16.
Tough - 2d4 - Incentives 


Iron Defense - Steel
EOT - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Defense 2 Combat Stages.
Tough - 2d4 - Hold That Thought


Iron Head - Steel
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash
Iron Head Flinches the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 


Iron Tail - Steel
4d12+16 - EOT - 6
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Iron Tail lowers the target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 19-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 








King’s Shield - Steel
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Intercept
If the user is hit by a Move with a Damage Dice Roll, instead you are not hit by the Move. You do not take any damage nor are you affected by any of the Move’s effects. If the Move was Melee ranged, the attacker’s Attack is lowered 2 Combat Stages.
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect


Magnet Bomb - Steel
2d10+8 - EOT - None
Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 target
Magnet Bomb cannot miss.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 

*Grants: Magnetic

Metal Burst - Steel
See Effect - Battle - 2
Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Metal Burst may only be used if the user didn’t move first in the round and the user has taken damage from a Move this round. The Target is dealt damage equal to 1.5x the amount of damage the user received during the last Move that hit it. Do not apply weakness, resistance or immunity. Do not apply stats.
Beauty - 2d4 - Final Appeal 


Metal Claw - Steel
2d8+6 - At-Will - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass, Spirit Surge
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Incentives


 

Metal Sound - Steel
EOT - 4
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: No Target, Burst, Sound
Metal Sound creates a 4-meter Burst. All Legal Targets have their Special Defense lowered 2 Combat Stages. 
Smart - 2d4 - Unsettling 


Meteor Mash - Steel
4d12+16 - Battle - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Spirit Surge
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 2d4 - Round Ender 

 
Mirror Shot - Steel
3d8+10 - EOT - 5
Special Attack - Ranged (7)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Mirror Shot creates a Column 1 meter wide. All Legal Targets must roll +2 during Accuracy Checks to hit on 16-20 during Accuracy Check. 
Cute - 2d4 - Round Starter 


Shift Gear - Steel
Battle - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage and raise the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages.
Smart - None - Get Ready!


Steel Wing - Steel
3d8+10 - At-Will - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass, Spirit Surge
Raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect 



Water Moves
Aqua Jet - Water
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Interrupt
If a foe wants to declare a Move, you may instead use Aqua Jet on their turn before they can use their Move. 
Beauty - 2d4 - Quick Set 


Aqua Ring - Water
Center - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target, Coat
Aqua Ring covers the user in a Coat that heals the user at the beginning of each of their turns. The user is healed 1/16th of their full HP each turn.
Beauty - None - Torrential Appeal 

 
Aqua Tail - Water
3d12+14 - Battle - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Cute - 3d4 - No Effect 


Brine - Water
3d8+10 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target
If the target is below 50% HP, Brine deals 5d12+22 during Damage Dice Roll.
Smart - 2d4 - Incentives 


Bubble - Water
1d6+3 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
Bubble lowers the target’s Speed on 16-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cute - 2d4 - Slow Set 



Bubblebeam - Water
3d8+10 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Bubblebeam creates a Column 1 meter wide. Bubblebeam lowers the target’s Speed on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Slow Set 


Clamp - Water
1d12+6 - EOT - 4
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Trap
Clamp Traps the target and the user for 1d4+1 turns. At the beginning of the target’s turn, if the target is Trapped, roll 1d12 and the target loses that much HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance to the HP lost. Do not apply stats to the HP lost. Clamp may not trap more then one target at a time unless the user is Huge or Gigantic. 
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 

 
Crabhammer - Water
3d12+14 - Battle - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
Crabhammer Pushes the target 2-meters. Crabhammer is a Critical Hit on 18-20 during Accuracy Check.
Tough - 2d4 - Round Starter 

















Dive - Water
3d10+12 - Battle - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Dash, Set Up
Once you declare the use of Dive, the user is moved underwater and their turn ends. On the next turn, Dive’s user may shift then use Dive’s damage. While underwater, Dive’s user may not be the target of Moves. There must be a body of water around the battlefield to use Dive.
Beauty - 1d4 - Special Attention 

*Grants: Underwater +3
*Eliminates: Sinker

Hydro Cannon - Water
7d10+28 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (15)
Effect: Target Area, Blast, Exhaust
Hydro Cannon creates a 3-meter Blast. On Miss, Hydro Cannon deals the user’s Special Attack instead to all possible targets.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet


Hydro Pump - Water
5d12+18 - Battle - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (9)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Hydro Pump creates a Column 1 meter wide.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Fountain
 
Muddy Water - Water
4d12+16 - Battle - 5
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Muddy Water makes a Column 4-meters wide. All Legal Targets must roll +2 during Accuracy Checks to hit on 16-20 during Accuracy Check. 
Tough - 2d4 - Round Ender 


 
Octazooka - Water
3d8+10 - Battle - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (8)
Effect: 1 Target
All Legal Targets must roll +1 during Accuracy Checks to hit on 11-20 during Accuracy Check. 
Tough - 2d4 - Incentives 


Rain Dance - Water
Battle - None
Field - Effect
Effect: Target Area, Weather
For 1d4+1 rounds, the area is considered Rainy. While Rainy, Water-Type attacks deal 1.5x damage. Fire-Type attacks deal ½ the damage they normally would. 
Tough - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 


Razor Shell - Water
3d10+12 - EOT - 3
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Pass
Razor Shell lowers the Target’s Defense 1 Combat Stage on 11-20 during Accuracy Check.
Cool - 3d4 - No Effect

 
Scald - Water
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target
Scald Burns the target on 15-20 during Accuracy Check.
Smart - 3d4 - No Effect


Soak - Water
Battle - 2
Effect - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target 
For 1d4+1 turns, the target’s Elemental Type(s), become(s) Water Type. 
Beauty - None - Torrential Appeal 



Surf - Water
4d12+16 - Battle - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Column
Surf makes a Column 4-meters wide.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Surface +3
*Eliminates: Sinker

Water Gun - Water
1d12+6 - At-Will - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: 1 Target
Cute - 3d4 - No Effect 

*Grants: Fountain
 
Water Pledge - Water
2d8+6 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (6)
Effect: 1 Target, Pledge
If used on the same turn as Fire Pledge, all secondary effects of Moves are activated at a -3 during the Accuracy Check for 1d4+1 turns. If used on the same turn as Grass Pledge, all foes are treated as if at -2 Speed Combat Stages for 1d4+1 turns, if any foe has additional Speed Combat Stages, apply them as usual.
Beauty - None - Torrential Appeal 


Water Pulse - Water
2d10+8 - EOT - 2
Special Attack - Ranged (3)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Water Pulse creates a 3-meter Burst. Water Pulse Confuses all Legal Targets on 17-20 during Accuracy Check.
Beauty - 2d4 - Round Starter 

*Grants: Fountain
 





Water Shuriken - Water
1d6+3 - EOT - 2
Attack - Ranged (7)
Effect: 1 Target, Scatter, Interrupt
If a foe wants to declare a Move, you may instead use Water Shuriken on their turn before they can use their Move.  Water Shuriken can hit up to 5 times. Once the user misses, they cannot attempt to make another Water Shuriken attack on that turn.
Tough - 2d4 - Reliable 


Water Sport - Water
EOT - None
Effect - Ranged (4)
Effect: 1 Target, Coat
Water Sport makes a Coat that resists Fire Moves. Water Sport can Target Self.
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

*Grants: Fountain

Water Spout - Water
7d10+28 - Center - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (10)
Effect: No Target, Burst
Water Spout creates a 10-meter Burst. Water Spout may not be performed unless the user has at least 90% of its HP.
Beauty - 2d4 - Seen Nothing Yet 


Waterfall - Water
3d10+12 - EOT - 2
Attack - Melee
Effect: 1 Target, Push
The target is Pushed 2-meters. If the target is airborne, Waterfall deals an additional 1d12 during Damage Dice Roll. Waterfall Flinches the target on 17-20 during Accuracy Check. 
Tough - 3d4 - No Effect 


 




Whirlpool - Water
1d12+6 - EOT - 4
Special Attack - Ranged (5)
Effect: 1 Target, Trap
Whirlpool Traps the target for 1d4+1 turns. At the beginning of the target’s turn, if the target is Trapped, roll 1d12 and the target loses that much HP. Do not apply weakness or resistance to the HP lost. Do not apply stats to the HP lost. Whirlpool may not trap more then one target at a time. 
Beauty - None - Torrential Appeal 


Withdraw - Water
At-Will - None
Effect - Self
Effect: No Target
Raise the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage.
Cute - 2d4 - Hold That Thought 

Combat
	In Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures, Combat happens in 10 second rounds. Each round, a Trainer has the ability to perform one Command Action, one Shift Action, and one Trainer Action. Pokemon get one Shift Action and one Move Action, as a result of their Trainer’s Command Action.

Initiative

	The Initiative of Pokemon and Trainers are determined by their DEX stats and Speed Stats 
respectively. During each round, Trainers will go first, in order of highest DEX to lowest DEX. Following Trainers, Pokemon then have their initiatives, going from highest Speed to lowest Speed.

Trainers

	During a Trainer’s turn there are many different things they can do; they may use one of their Trainer Features, use their Pokedex, use an Item, switch their active Pokemon, or attack another trainer or Pokemon. The majority of actions a trainer can take a Trainer Action, though many are Free Actions, and some are even Shift Actions.

Trainer Actions

	Many feats require a Trainer Action during your turn to activate and use. Arms Attacks are an example of a common Trainer Action. Other actions that require a Trainer Action include:
	- Using an item on a Pokemon or a Trainer, unless specified otherwise by the item or one of 
		your features.
	- Throwing a Pokeball to Capture a wild Pokemon
	- Switching from one Weapon to another.
	- In place of a Trainer Action, a Trainer may send out two Pokemon, return two Pokemon, or 
		send out one Pokemon and return one Pokemon (If the returned Pokemon is under 1% 			of its full HP, returning the Pokemon and sending out a different Pokemon is a 
		Free Action).

Shift Actions

	The Shift Action is the most straightforward action during your trainer turn; it’s simply your movement. How far your Trainer moves may depend on your Trainer stats.
	- Trainers have an Overland Capability of 5, or 3 plus half of the highest of your 
		STR, DEX, or CON modifier, whichever is higher.
	- Trainers have an Surface Capability of 4, or 2 plus half of the highest of your 
		STR, DEX, or CON modifier, whichever is higher.
	- Trainers have an Underwater Capability of 4, or 2 plus half of the highest of your 
		STR, DEX, or CON modifier, whichever is higher.
	- Additionally, returning or sending out only one Pokemon, or returning a knocked out 
		Pokemon and sending out only one Pokemon, can also be a Shift Action.

Free Actions
	Many features can be activated as Free Actions, but one Free Action available to most trainers is particularly notable: using the Pokedex. Using the Pokedex is an important part of any trainer’s life. In Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures, when a trainer uses a Pokedex on a Pokemon they have never identified with their Pokedex before, they gain “DexExp.” As a reminder, for every twenty-five different Pokemon that are identified with a trainer’s Pokedex, that Trainer gains one level.
	When someone uses their Pokedex on a Pokemon, they gain access to the Pokemon’s entry in the Bestiary/Pokedex. However, when a Trainer uses their Pokedex, they are not immediately informed of what Pokemon their Pokemon just identified. It takes 15 seconds, just over three Rounds, for the 
Pokedex to load all relevant information. Until then, you’re still in the dark about what Pokemon you’ve just identified, unless you have a trusty Researcher on your team who can recognize the Pokemon by 
appearance without the help of their Pokedex. Using your Pokedex is a Free Action.

Issue Command

	When you Issue a Command, you are telling one of your active Pokemon how to Shift and which of their Moves, Abilities or Capabilities to use during that round of the Encounter. If you have any 
additional instructions to give to your Pokemon, you would do so during your Issue a Command part of your turn during that round.
	You do not need to announce the Move of your Pokemon during your Trainer Turn - rather the ‘Command’ action should just be announced during the Pokemon’s turn, but you must have a Command action available to have a Pokemon act.

Pokemon

Pokemon generally have two actions each turn; a Move Action, and a Shift Action.

Move Action

	The most basic use of a Move Action is performing a Pokemon Move. Unless otherwise noted, every move, from Leer to Hyper Beam, requires a Move Action.

Shift Action

	Shifting is much the same for Pokemon as it is for Trainers; they may take their Shift Action to move, depending on their Movement Capabilities. However, Pokemon have one special ability that 
trainers do not - Covering.
	If a Trainer is being targeted by an attack, one of that Trainer’s Pokemon may may a check on a 1d20 to try and Shift into the line of sight in order to Cover the attack. If the Pokemon’s Speed stat is 20 or below they must roll 11 or better on the d20 check to be allowed to Shift into the way of the attack. If their Speed stat exceeds 20, they need only to roll 6 or better on the d20 Check. If a Pokemon’s Speed stat exceeds 35, they do not need to make a check. Covering an Attack for their trainer forfeit’s a Pokemon’s next Shift action.

Calculating damage

Calculating Damage
	So, you’ve declared your attack, you’ve passed the Accuracy Check and now you’re dealing some damage to the enemy. But, how much damage?

When Calculating Damage, you’ll go through this order:
	- Roll Damage, and then add the total to the appropriate Attack Stat. 
	- At this point, you’ll hand over the total damage to the target(s) and they’ll 
		subtract the appropriate Defense Stat. 
	- Finally, they will apply Weaknesses and Resistances and subtract that total from their HP.

Rolling Damage
	Look up the Move’s Damage Dice Roll and roll the dice. Add up the total on the rolls, this should be the easy part. Don’t forget to add STAB when using a same-typed Move.

Add Appropriate Attack Stat
	Look up next to the Range of the Move, whether it be Melee or Ranged, and after each Move’s Range it should either say No Damage (in which case you wouldn’t be calculating damage), Attack, or Special Attack. Attack and Special Attack specifies which stat you’ll be adding to the Damage Dice Roll. Ranged Moves tend to use Special Attack and Melee Moves tend to use Attack, but pay attention to the Range line to know which Stat to add.

Apply Defenses
	After Rolling Damage, adding the Appropriate Attack Stat, you give the total damage to the target and they will subtract the appropriate Defense Stat from the total they receive. If the Move used the Attack Stat, the defender will use their Defense Stat. If the Move used the Special Attack Stat, the defender will use their Special Defense Stat.

Apply Weaknesses and Resistances
	Weaknesses, Resistances and Immunities are arguably one of the most important mechanics of Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures. They dictate which Pokemon are good to be fighting with against the threat at hand and which Moves should be used whenever attacking a Pokemon. When the 
attacking Pokemon’s Move is an Elemental Type that the target Pokemon’s Elemental Type or Types is Weak against, multiply the total from Rolling Damage and Adding the Appropriate Attack Stat by two. If both of the defending Pokemon’s Types are weak to the attacking Move, multiply the total damage by four. If one of the defending Pokemon’s Types is weak to the attacking Move, while the defending 
Pokemon’s other Type resists the attack’s Type, do not apply a multiplier to the total damage. If the 
defending Pokemon’s Type resists the attacking Move’s Type, divide the total damage by two. If the 
defending Pokemon’s has two Types that both resist the attacking Move’s Type, divide the total damage by four. If the defending Pokemon’s type is Immune to the Move’s type, the Move deals no damage.

	After applying Weaknesses, Resistances and Immunities, subtract that total from the defending Pokemon’s HP.

Elemental Interactions 
	per Type:

Bug Type:
     Resisted by: Fairy, Fighting, Fire, Flying, 
	Ghost, Poison, Steel
     Super Effective Against: Dark, Grass, Psychic
     Weak to: Fire, Flying, Rock
     Resists: Fighting, Grass, Ground

Dark Type:
     Resisted by: Dark, Fairy, Fighting, Steel
     Super Effective Against: Ghost, Psychic
     Weak to: Bug, Fairy, Fighting
     Resists: Dark, Ghost

Dragon Type:
     Resisted by: Steel
     Super Effective Against: Dragon
     Weak to: Dragon, Fairy, Ice
     Resists: Electric, Fire, Grass, Water

Electric Type:
     Resisted by: Dragon, Electric, Grass 
     Super Effective Against: Flying, Water
     Weak to: Ground
     Resists: Electric, Flying, Steel

Fairy Type:
     Resisted by: Fire, Poison, Steel
     Super Effective Against: Dark, Dragon, 
	Fighting
     Weak to: Poison, Steel
     Resists: Bug, Dark, Fighting































Fighting Type:
     Resisted by: Bug, Fairy, Flying, Poison, 
	Psychic
     Super Effective Against: Dark, Ice, Normal, 
	Rock, Steel
     Weak to: Fairy, Flying, Psychic
     Resists: Bug, Dark, Rock

Fire Type:
     Resisted by: Dragon, Fire, Rock, Water
     Super Effective Against: Bug, Grass, Ice, Steel
     Weak to: Ground, Rock, Water
     Resists: Bug, Fairy, Fire, Grass, Ice, Steel

Flying Type:
     Resisted by: Electric, Rock, Steel
     Super Effective Against: Bug, Fighting, Grass 
     Weak to: Electric, Ice, Rock
     Resists: Bug, Fighting, Grass

Ghost Type:
     Resisted by: Dark, Steel
     Super Effective Against: Ghost, Psychic
     Weak to: Dark, Ghost
     Resists: Bug, Poison

Grass Type:
     Resisted by: Bug, Dragon, Fire, Flying, Grass, 
	Poison, Steel
     Super Effective Against: Ground, Rock, Water
     Weak to: Bug, Fire, Flying, Ice, Poison
     Resists: Electric, Grass, Ground, Water



Ground Type:
     Resisted by: Bug, Grass
     Super Effective Against: Electric, Fire, Poison,
	Rock, Steel
     Weak to: Grass, Ice, Water
     Resists: Poison, Rock

Ice Type:
     Resisted by: Fire, Ice, Steel, Water
     Super Effective Against: Dragon, Flying, 
	Grass, Ground
     Weak to: Fighting, Fire, Rock, Steel
     Resists: Ice

Normal Type:
     Resisted by: Rock, Steel
     Super Effective Against: Normal is not 
	Super Effective against any Type
     Weak to: Fighting
     Resists: Normal does not resist any Type

Poison Type:
     Resisted by: Ghost, Ground, Poison, Rock
     Super Effective Against: Fairy, Grass
     Weak to: Ground, Psychic
     Resists: Bug, Fairy, Fighting, Grass, Poison

















Psychic Type:
     Resisted by: Psychic, Steel
     Super Effective Against: Fighting, Poison
     Weak to: Bug, Dark, Ghost
     Resists: Fighting, Psychic




Rock Type:
     Resisted by: Fighting, Ground, Steel
     Super Effective Against: Bug, Fire, Flying, Ice
     Weak to: Fighting, Grass, Ground, Steel, Water
     Resists: Fire, Flying, Normal, Poison

Steel Type:
     Resisted by: Electric, Fire, Steel, Water
     Super Effective Against: Fairy, Ice, Rock
     Weak to: Fighting, Fire, Ground
     Resists: Bug, Dragon, Fairy, Flying, Grass, Ice, 
	Normal, Psychic, Rock, Steel


















Water Type:
     Resisted by: Dragon, Grass, Ice, Water
     Super Effective Against: Ground, Fire, Rock
     Weak to: Electric, Grass
     Resists: Fire, Steel, Water







Immunities:
	Dark is Immune to Psychic
	Fairy is Immune to Dragon
	Flying is Immune to Ground
	Ghost is Immune to Fighting and Normal
	Ground is Immune to Electric
	Normal is Immune to Ghost
	Steel is Immune to Poison

Encounters

	Encounters with other Trainers are generally nonthreatening and are occasionally made with wagers. It is important to decide before the battle what you’ll be wagering or their could be 
disagreement after the fact. However, it is not unheard of for Trainers to agree on a change of the wager during a Battle. Usually, Trainers in these kind of battles will only have one active Pokemon at a time to issue commands to. These battles can easily be expanded into two versus two, three versus three or even four versus four if the party of Trainers happen to find other willing trainers. The amount of Pokemon each trainer will use is also usually agreed upon before battle so that Trainers with only a few Pokemon do not feel overwhelmed by their opponent who has a team of six powerful Pokemon.
	Gyms may have their own special rules depending on the setting your GM is handling so it’s 
important to ask during the start of a campaign the format in which Gym Battles take place. Usually Gym Battles are tests of skills in one on one battles against a Gym Leader to prove your worth but with the limitless campaign settings, anything could be different. One thing that will always remain the same is that once you beat a Gym Leader, you will receive a Gym Badge.
	Wild encounters are a different story. Wild Pokemon will commonly see Trainers as a threat to their home, or, in the case of larger predatory pokemon, tasty food. In these cases, Wilds will swarm your Party and for this reason, when you are travelling in the wild, you should always try to have an alert, active Pokemon. It’s unusual to come across a Wild by itself, unless it is a predator out on the hunt by itself, but even then many predatory Pokemon will hunt in packs. Wild Pokemon whose territory you’ve entered will usually try to flee when weakened or defeated in battle, losing their will to fight. This is your chance to capture a Pokemon! Pokemon who are hunting your party might also try to flee if you defeat them, or they just might fight until they are felled. Rangers and Law Enforcement usually do not mind when you are led to kill an aggressive Pokemon, however if you leave a trail of dead Pokemon who wanted to disengage from battle, you’ll likely get arrested.
	- After any battle encounter, your Pokemon should receive experience points!
	- Some wild Encounters don’t always go as planned. This is when it’s best to count your losses 
	     and get out of there. Your party will need to make escape checks, but it might be worth it!

Escaping

	An Escape Check removes a player from a wild Encounter, by using a Pokemon as cover. If a player has no more active Pokemon, an ally’s Pokemon may cover the escaping player. The Escape Check takes up your entire turn (Trainer Action, Pokemon Action and Shift). To make the check, roll 1d20. You need to roll a 11 or better to successfully escape, removing your Pokemon and yourself from the encounter. However, if there is more than twice the amount of wild Pokemon as there are players and Pokemon on your team or if all of the wild Pokemon in the encounter are twice the level of your 
active Pokemon who is helping you make the Escape Check, the Escape Check is 16 or better. On a 
successful roll, Shift yourself and the Pokemon helping you make the Escape Check 15 meters away from the Encounter, ignoring Speed Capabilities and Trainer Shifting limitations. Wild Pokemon will ignore players who successfully make an Escape Check, however if they rejoin the encounter, all future Escape Checks for the remainder of the Encounter are 20 on 1d20.
	Wild Pokemon may make these checks too, to escape players. Usually on successful rolls, they’ll be Shifted over 20 meters per round away from players until Players give up the chase.

Status Afflictions

	You may suffer up to three Status afflictions at the same time. If you get a fourth Status affliction while already having three, the offender who causes the fourth affliction may choose which prior 
affliction to replace or to not replace any prior affliction at all. While suffering the effects of afflictions, the afflicted may choose in which order they take damage from their afflictions and which order they make checks to cure themselves of the afflictions.

Asleep
     On the first round of Sleep, a 16 or better will wake you. On following turns, you must roll two less then the previous turn to wake up, capping at 6 (16,14,12,10,8,6). On a failed roll, the Pokemon may not use a Move or Shift unless they have a 
special Move. When a pokemon uses Rest, it remains asleep to two turns no matter what, no longer no shorter. When a Sleeping Pokemon is sent out of its Poke Ball , the Sleep check starts at 12. On Turns following that, you must roll two lower, capping at 6.

Burned
     The Pokemon’s Defense Stat is treated as if it has been lowered 2 Combat Stages. Once per turn, you may try to roll for self-curing the Burn in place of a Pokemon’s Move. On d20, the check is a 17. Fire-Type Pokemon only need to roll a 13 when attempting to self-cure burn. At the end of every round, the Burned Pokemon loses 1/10th of its Max HP. A Pokemon does not suffer the effects of Burn while in a Poke Ball.

Confused
     Before using a Move or Shifting roll 1d20. On 1-10, you deal twice your STAB to yourself. Do not apply Weakness, Resistance, Defense or Special Defense. On 11-15, you may use a Move and Shift as normal. On 16-20, you are cured of confusion.

Critical Hit
     A Critical Hit adds the Damage Dice Roll a 
second time, including any base amount in the Damage Dice Roll.

Flinch
     You may not Shift or use a Move during your next turn.



Frozen
     The Frozen Pokemon may not use a Move or Shift. Once per turn, you may try to roll for self-curing the Freeze in place of a Pokemon’s Move. On d20, the check is a 16. This roll is only 11 for Ice, Fighting, and Fire Pokemon. If you are hit with a Fire, Fighting, Rock, or Steel attack, which has a Damage Dice Roll, you are Defrosted.
 
Infatuation
     Before using a Move or Shifting roll 1d20. On 1-10, you may not target the Pokemon you are Infatuated towards with a Move. On 11-19 you may use a Move and Shift as normal. On 20, you are cured of the Infatuation.
 
Paralysis
     The Pokemon’s Speed Stat is halved. On the first round of Paralysis, roll 6 or better on 1d20 to
act as usual. On the rounds following that, you
must roll one higher, capping at 16 (6,7,8,9,10, 11,12,13,14,15,16). On a failed roll, no Move may be used. You may not Shift either. Dragon and Electric type Pokemon may attempt to self-cure paralysis, only a roll of 20 will cure during their turn instead of shifting and/or moving. When a Paralyzed Pokemon is sent out of its Poke Ball , the Paralysis check starts at 11. On Turns following that, you must roll one higher, capping at 16.
 
Poisoned
     The Pokemon’s Special Defense Value is treated as if it has been lowered 2 Combat Stages. Once per turn, you may try to roll for self-curing the Poison in place of a Pokemon’s Move. You may not try this for Badly Poisoned. On d20, the check is a 17. Poison and Steel type Pokemon are immune to becoming Poisoned. At the end of every round, the Poisoned loses 1/10th of its total HP. When Badly poisoned, the afflicted loses 5 HP, then twice that, 10 HP, then twice that, 20 HP, then twice that, 40 HP, etc. at the end of each round. A Pokemon does not suffer the effects of Poison while in a Poke Ball.

Terrain

Terrain is what covers, well, everything. It is the ground and the water that Pokemon Shift around on.



	- Basic Terrain affects which Speed Capability you use to Shift.
- Earth Terrain: Earth Terrain is underground terrain that has no existing tunnel that you are trying to Shift through. You may only Shift through Earth Terrain if you have a Burrow Capability.
- Regular Terrain: Regular Terrain is dirt, short grass, cement, smooth rock, indoor building etc. Shift through Regular Terrain, per meter or space as normal with the Overland Capability.
- Surface Terrain: Surface Terrain is Water that is deep enough for a Pokemon or Trainer to stand waist level in. A Pokemon Shifting through Surface Terrain uses its Surface Capability for its Shift value. What is Surface Terrain for one person or Pokemon might not necessarily be Surface terrain for all Pokemon or Trainers, depending on their height.
- Underwater: Underwater Terrain is any water that a Pokemon or Trainer can be submerged in. You may not move through Underwater Terrain during an encounter if you do not have an Underwater 
Capability.



	- Hindering Terrain modifies both how Pokemon Shift and how Pokemon Target anything.
- Blocking Terrain: Blocking Terrain is any wall, mountain or structure in general that you would not be able to naturally walk through. You cannot Shift through Blocking Terrain, you cannot target through Blocking Terrain. If the object creating Blocking Terrain allows, you may travel over Blocking Terrain or target over Blocking Terrain.
- Rough Terrain: Rough Terrain is anywhere with enough debris or brush around so that Trainers are up to their waists in terrain. Some examples of Rough Terrain is scorched earth, building debris, 
forests, mountainsides, etc. When Shifting through Rough Terrain, Trainers and their Pokemon treat every meter, or space, as two meters, or two spaces. When targeting through Rough Terrain, you must roll +2 during Accuracy Check to hit. Spaces occupied by other Pokemon are considered Rough Terrain.



	- Difficult Terrain only modifies how Pokemon Shift during their turn. 
- Icy Terrain: Pokemon moving on Icy Terrain do not stop moving in the direction they start moving until they hit Blocking Terrain or leave Icy Terrain. If a Pokemon Shifts towards a Target on Icy Terrain, they stop adjacent to the Target and the Target is Shifted in the direction opposite of the Shifting 
Pokemon until they hit Blocking Terrain or leave Icy Terrain. A Pokemon may choose to make a Stop Check instead of using a Move during their turn to stop Shifting as a result of Icy Terrain’s effect. The check on 1d20 must be 14 or higher.
Sandy Terrain: Sandy Terrain is not basic sand on the ground. Sandy Terrain is loose, grainy sand that you’d find in a desert. While moving on Sandy Terrain, Pokemon who do not have a Burrow Capability or the Sand Veil Ability treat all of their Speed Capabilities as if they are Shifting through Rough Terrain.

Contests

	In Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures, Combat isn’t the only way to compete against other Trainer’s Pokemon. Moves can also be used to impress Contest Judges and win Ribbons! 

Contest Stats

	There are five distinct Contest Stats, like there are six distinct battle stats. The Contest Stats are Cool, Tough, Beauty, Smart, and Cute. Each of these corresponds to one of the five flavors found in 
berries: Spicy corresponds to Cool; Sour to Tough; Dry to Beauty; Bitter to Smart; and Sweet to Cute. When you feed Poffins to Pokemon you can increase a Pokemon’s Cool, Tough, Beauty, Smart or Cute Stats.
	The Contest Stats on a single pokemon, when added together, may not exceed 20. Furthermore, no single stat may have more than 12 points.
	Whenever you use a move during a contest, you may Burn a point of your matching Contest Stat to increase the appeal power of a move by +1. You may burn up to four points in this manner in a single move. For example, if you use Brick Break (with a flat appeal of 3d4) in a contest and burn 2 points of your Cool stat, your appeal for the round will be 3d4+2
	All burned points are refreshed when the contest is over.

Poffin

	The value of a poffin is X, where X is the number of berries you added to the food, up to a 
maximum of five. You may add more than 5 berries into the mix, to change the flavor of the food, but X cannot be higher than 5. The Poffin’s flavor depends on the flavors of berries put into the food; whichever flavor had the highest number of berries in the mix becomes the flavor of the food. If there is an equal amount of flavor in the food, the food is double-typed, but the value is deducted by 2.
	If you feed a Poffin to a Pokemon, the pokemon gains the the value of that food to the pokemon’s Cool, Tough, Beauty, Smart or Cute stats. A Bitter food with a value of 5 will add 5 points to a pokemon’s Smart stats. A Dry and Sweet food with a value of 3 will add 3 to a pokemon’s Beauty and Cute stats.
	Only the first five Poffins that you feed to your pokemon will raise its contest stats. You may still feed foods to your pokemon, but after the fifth one, it will not add points to their stats any more. If you feed a food which has a disliked flavor to your Pokemon, when it gains half of the value of the food, 
subtract an additional point from it when adding the points to the Contest Stats. If there is a liked flavor in the food, add a single point into the liked flavor’s associated Contest Stat.

Contest Stages

	In all Contests, there are two stages. The Introduction Stage, and the Appeal Stage. You must 
manipulate your opponents, their pokemon and the Judges to be awarded the most points. At the 
begining of each Contest, a Contest Type should be announced. This will determine what kind of Moves you will want to use.

Introduction Stage
	In the Introduction Stage, a pokemon is sent out and an initial appeal is made to the judges based on a pokemon’s grooming, held items, accessories, and any other preperations a trainer may have made for themselves or their pokemon.

Appeal Stage
	The Appeal Stage takes place over a number of rounds equal to the number of contestants. In most “Standard” Contests, this is usually 4. When the Appeal stage is finished, the contestant with the most points is the winner!

Rounds

Each Round, the Trainer will tell a pokemon to perform a Move for one of the three Judges.

	Moves, when used in Contests, function differently from when they would if they were used in battle. Moves have Contest Types and when they are used in a Contest, they can raise the Judge’s Voltage, or lower the Judge’s Voltage. How a Move affects a Judge’s Voltage depends on the Contest’s Type, and the Type of Move you used.
	Whenever you perform a Move with the same Contest Type as the current Contest, roll an 
additional 1d4 for the Appeal. Using the same Move two rounds in a row will not gain any appeal points, but it may still raise Voltage
	All three Judges have their Voltage level start at 1. If you perform a move in a Contest with the same Contest Type as the event, the Judge you perform for will have their Voltage raised. When a Judge’s Votage is raised to level 6, the Pokemon who raises the Judge’s Voltage to 6 gets to roll an additional 4d4 for their appeal that round.
	However, there is also a way to lower a Judge’s Voltage; whenever you perform a Move with a Contest Type that is opposite the Type of Contest, the Judge will be displeased and lower their Voltage. If you use a Move of a type that is adjacent to the current contest type, nothing happens to the Judge’s 
Voltage.









	For example, in a Cool Contest, using a Smart or Cute Move will lower the Voltage.
  Using a Tough or Beauty Move will not affect the Voltage. Using a Cool Move will raise the Voltage.

Round Order



	On odd numbered rounds, Trainers will perform in the order their total Appeals, including points from the Introduction Stage, ordered from lowest to highest. The Value of the totals are not announced, only the order in which they currently stand is announced.
	On even numbered rounds, Trainers will perform in the order their total Appeals, including points from the Introduction Stage, are ordered from highest to lowest. The Value of the totals are not 
announced, only the order in which they currently stand is announced.

Alternate Style Contests

	There’s many variations of contests - and different venues may have different rules. Any of these templates may be applied to contests - and in some cases, more than one template may be applied!

Trainer-Appeal Contests
	In Trainer Appeal Contests, it’s not only the Trainers that compete - the trainer’s performance is just as crucial to success as that of the pokemon!
	- In the Introduction Stage, trainers add any points they may gain from accessories, as well as the 
	highest of their CHA or CON modifiers.
	- In the Appeal Stage, trainers may use their Trainer Features to perform moves just like pokemon.
	Alternatively, they may activate an accessory to emulate a pokemon move.

Supercontest
	While “Standard” Contests have a fixed Contest Type, Supercontests are completely random. At the beginning of each round, before moves are chosen, the GM rolls 1d6. On a result of 1, the Type is Cool for that round. 2 is Tough, 3 is Beauty, 4 is Smart, and 5 is Cute. On a result of 6, there is a Free Round. In a Free Round, no type gets the +1d4 bonus - but ALL types can raise the voltage, so be careful!

Festival
	Festivals are much like Super Contests, in that the Contest Type is constantly fluctuating. However, in a Festival, each judge individually rolls to see which type of move they would like to see that round.

High Voltage
	In a High Voltage Contest, the Voltage rules are slightly different. Each Judge begins with 1 
Voltage. Whenever the voltage of a judge is RAISED up to an odd-numbered value, the voltage of the other two judges decreases by 1.
	On Odd-Numbered rounds, whenever a pokemon performs a move that raises the voltage, they gain an extra +Xd4 appeal, where X was the level of the judge’s voltage before it was raised ie, if a 
pokemon raises the voltage from 4 to 5, they gain +4d4 appeal.
	On Even-Numbered rounds, whenever a pokemon performs a move that raises the voltage, they gain an extra +Xd4 appeal, where X is 7 minus the level of the judge’s voltage before it was raised ie, if a pokemon raises the voltage from 1 to 2, they gain +6d4 appeal

Contest Keywords

Attention Grabber
	A Contest Move with the keyword 
Attention Grabber halves the Appeal Points, rounding down, of the pokemon who last went during that Appeal round, then adds that result to their own Appeal Points for the round.

Big Show
	A Contest Move with the keyword Big Show rolls 15d4 if each contestant performs for the same judge. You may only use the effect of a Big Show Contest Move if you are performing fourth or fifth in a round.

Catching Up
	A Contest Move with the keyword 
Catching Up rolls an additional 3d4 if they have the lowest amount of total Appeal Points.

Crowd Pleaser
	A Contest Move with the keyword Crowd Pleaser raises the target Judge’s Voltage 2, 
regardless of the Contest Type.

End Set
	A Contest Move with the keyword End Set will perform third, fourth or last during the next 
appeal round. You must choose when performing the Contest Move. A Contest Move with the 
keyword End Set has been modified by a Feature.

Excitement
	A Contest Move with the keyword 
Excitement prevents the target Judge’s Voltage from going down during that round.

Final Appeal
	A Contest Move with the keyword Final Appeal rolls twice the dice shown in the Appeal Roll if the Move is performed during the last round of Appeals.






Get Ready!
	A Contest Move with the keyword Get Ready! rolls twice the amount of dice during their next appeal during the Contest then they usually would in their Appeal Roll or Effect. If they 
perform a move that raises a Judge’s Voltage to max, you gain 14d4 Voltage points instead of 7d4.

Good Show!
	A Contest Move with the keyword Good Show! rolls an additional 3d4 if any Voltage was raised during both of the last two turns during the Appeal Round.

Hold That Thought
	A Contest Move with the keyword Hold That Thought prevents the target judge’s Voltage from being raised for the remainder of the round, after the Pokemon’s Appeal.

Incredible
	A Contest Move with the keyword 
Incredible raises each Judge’s Voltage 1 level, regardless of Contest Types. A Contest Move with the keyword Incredible has been modified by a Feature.

Incentives
	A Contest Move with the keyword 
Incentives rolls an additional 2d4 when their 
appeal raises the judge’s Voltage.

Interrupting Appeal
	A Contest Move with the keyword 
Interrupting Appeal goes first during the appeal round, ignoring the order.

Inversed Appeal
	A Contest Move with the keyword Inversed Appeal rolls 1d4 for each point of voltage the target judge does not have.

Quick Set
	A Contest Move with the keyword Quick Set makes it so the Pokemon using it will perform first during the next appeal round.

Reflective Appeal
	A Contest Move with the keyword 
Reflective Appeal rolls 1d4 for each point of voltage the target judge has.

Reliable
	A Contest Move with the keyword Reliable may use the same Move during their next round and when they do they get to roll and additional 1d4 during the appeal.

Round Ender
	A Contest Move with the keyword Round Ender rolls an additional 2d4 during their turn in the Contest round if they make their appeal last that round.

Round Starter
	A Contest Move with the keyword Round Starter rolls an additional 2d4 during their turn in the Contest round if they make their appeal first that round.

Scrambler
	A Contest Move with the keyword 
Scrambler randomizes the order of appeals during the next round.

Seen Nothing Yet
	A Contest Move with the keyword Seen Nothing Yet rolls an additional 3d4 when a 
pokemon raised a judge’s Voltage to max during that round or the round before.

Slow Set
	A Contest Move with the keyword Slow Set makes it so the Pokemon using it will perform last during the next appeal round.

Special Attention
	A Contest Move with the keyword Special Attention rolls an additional 3d4 if no other 
participant Appealed to the same judge during that round yet.

Start Set
	A Contest Move with the keyword Start Set will perform first, second or third during the next appeal round. You must choose when performing the Contest Move. A Contest Move with the 
keyword Start Set has been modified by a Feature.
Torrential Appeal
	A Contest Move with the keyword 
Torrential Appeal use 1d4 as its Appeal Roll if they perform first or second during the round, 2d4 as its Appeal Roll if they perform third or fourth, and 3d4 if they perform last during the round.

Unsettling
	A Contest Move with the keyword 
Unsettling lowers each judge’s Voltage 1 level.

Items

	There are various Items for use in the Pokemon world. Each of these may not necessarily be available in the campaign you’re playing and may be priced differently from campaign to campaign. Keep in mind that your GM ultimately chooses prices and availability, so before looking into finding a particular item, it might be a good idea to ask your GM about the item.

Apricorns:	
	Apricorns can be used to make Aprijuice or Apricorn Poke Balls. Finding a Smith to make them isn’t always easy. It’s usually simpler to just buy the Poke Balls in stores.
Apricorn Type:		Poke Ball:		Apricorn Type:		Poke Ball:		
Red Apricorns 		Level Ball		Pink Apricorns 		Love Ball
Yellow Apricorns 		Moon Ball		White Apricorns 		Fast Ball
Blue Apricorns 		Lure Ball		Black Apricorns 		Heavy Ball
Green Apricorns 		Friend Ball

Aprijuice:
	Aprijuice, made from Apricorns, is a drink for Pokemon that temporarily increases the 
Capabilities of a Pokemon. The price of Aprijuice depends on how well the Aprijuice is made, which is the quality of the Aprijuice, and the color of the Aprijuice, which depends on which Apricorns you use.  Different colors of Aprijuice influence different Capabilities.
	When you blend Apricorns  into Aprijuice, roll 1d4 then add 1 for each Apricorn you mixed into the drink, up to 3. Add an additional 1 point to the value for each Apricorn in the Aprijuice that matches the final Color of the Aprijuice. You may not add more then 3 Apricorns into the mix. After tallying all of these points, you’ll have the value of the Aprijuice. The Aprijuice’s color depends on what kind of flavors you put into the drink. Whatever flavor you put the most of in the Aprijuice, is the type of the Aprijuice. If there is an equal amount of flavor in the drink, choose 1 flavor; the Aprijuice will be that flavor. 
	When you give Aprijuice to a Pokemon, they will add a varying value of the Aprijuice to the 
pokemon’s related Capability for X days, where X is the value of the Aprijuice. A Pokemon may not 
benefit from the effects of more than 3 Aprijuices at a time. The Power, Intelligence and Jump Capabilities may not be raised above the usual cap. You may not stack the effects of multiple Aprijuices of the same color on the same Pokemon. Meaning, a Pokemon cannot gain an additional 4 Overland with two Pink Aprijuices that each give them +2. 














	- Here is a list of Colors, Capabilities and the flavors associated with Aprijuice:
Apricorns Type:	Shake Color:	Capabilities Increased:	Flavor:		Increase per Value:
- PinkApricorns 	Pink		Overland/Surface		Sweet		1 per 2 points of Value
- Blue Apricorns	Blue		Burrow/Sky/Underwater	Dry		1 per 2 points of Value
- Yellow Apricorns	Yellow		Power				Sour		1 per 4 points of Value
- Green Apricorns	Green		Intelligence			Bitter		1 per 4 points of Value
- Red Apricorns	Red		Jump				Spicy		1 per 4 points of Value
  
- White Apricorns	Flavor Dampener - If added to Aprijuice, no matter what the final flavor is, it will not be disliked by the Pokemon drinking it.
 - Black Apricorns	Flavor Enhancer - If added to Aprijuice, choose another Apricorn in the mix; for the purposes of finding the value of the Aprijuice, the Black Apricorn becomes a copy of the chosen 
Apricorn. 
 
	- Aprijuice made only of White or Black Apricorns give no bonuses to Pokemon.
  
	This means that certain types of Aprijuice will be inherently disliked by your Pokemon based on their Natures. This does not affect the effectiveness of the Aprijuice, but it’s something to think about while asking your Pokemon to drink something that it dislikes.
	Aprijuice made this way should conventionally only have a value up to 10; adding 5 to a Capability for 10 days with Pink and Blue Shakes or adding 2 to a Capability for 10 days with Yellow, Green or Red Shakes. Some Features can increase this value further.
	Aprijuice’s price depends on its value, marked after the item with VX, where X is the value of the Aprijuice. Usually, Aprijuice is priced 150 per point value. A Pink Aprijuice V10 would cost 1500, a Blue Aprijuice V4 would cost 600, and a Green Aprijuce V8 would cost 1200.

Berries:
	Berries, or fruits, cover the Pokemon world’s trees and brush with flavorful food, tasty to humans and useful to pokemon. Berries may be consumed, or held to be consumed during battle as a free action. Tastes correspond to the different types of Contests in the pokemon world. Spicy foods are for Cool 
contests; Sour for Tough; Dry for Beauty; Bitter for Smart; Sweet for Cute. Berries can be mixed into bready Poffin cakes, or candy-like Pokeblocks.  For the purposes of increasing your Pokemon’s Contest Stats, Poffins and Pokeblocks are identical.
	In the following pages,  the Berrydex details each berry’s number, name, flavor and any special effects the berry naturally has upon eating it. In addition, there is a suggested price value next the picture of each berry- however it should be noted that berries with special effects are not commonly sold in stores. Contest halls, should have specialty stores with berries but are normally more generously priced.

Berrydex:
01 Cheri Berry		Spicy 					Heals Paralysis.
	225
02 Chesto Berry	Dry					Heals Sleep.
	225
03 Pecha Berry	Sweet					Heals Poison.
	225
04 Rawst Berry	Bitter					Heals Burns.
	225
05 Aspear Berry	Sour					Heals Freeze.
	225
06 Leppa Berry	Spicy, Sweet, Bitter, Sour		Restores a Battle or Center use Move.
	375
07 Oran Berry		Spicy, Dry, Bitter, Sour		Heals 1d8 HP.
	90
08 Persim Berry	Spicy, Dry, Sweet, Sour		Heals Confusion.
	45
09 Lum Berry		Spicy, Dry, Sweet, Bitter		Heals any Status Affliction.
	555
10 Sitrus Berry	Dry, Sweet, Bitter, Sour		Heals 2d8 HP.
	155
11 Figy Berry		Spicy					Recovers 1/8th of pokemon’s Max HP. 
	155							Confuses Pokemon who don’t like Spicy food.
12 Wiki Berry		Dry					Recovers 1/8th of pokemon’s Max HP. 
	155							Confuses Pokemon who don’t like Dry food.
13 Mago Berry		Sweet					Recovers 1/8th of pokemon’s Max HP. 
	155							Confuses Pokemon who don’t like Sweet food.
14 Aguav Berry	Bitter					Recovers 1/8th of pokemon’s Max HP. 
	155							Confuses Pokemon who don’t like Bitter food.
15 Iapapa Berry	Sour					Recovers 1/8th of pokemon’s Max HP. 
	155							Confuses Pokemon who don’t like Sour food.
16 Razz Berry		Spicy, Dry				No Effect.
	90
17 Bluk Berry		Dry, Sweet				No Effect.
	90
18 Nanab Berry	Sweet, Bitter				No Effect.
	90
19 Wepear Berry	Bitter, Sour				No Effect.
	90
20 Pinap Berry	Spicy, Sour				No Effect.
	90
21 Pomeg Berry	Spicy, Sweet, Bitter			Only if you want it to, it will lower the 
	375							Pokemon’s HP Base Stat 1.
22 Kelpsy Berry	Dry, Bitter, Sour			Only if you want it to, it will lower the 
	375							Pokemon’s Attack Base Stat 1.
23 Qualot Berry	Spicy, Sweet, Sour			Only if you want it to, it will lower the 
	375							Pokemon’s Defense Base Stat 1.
24 Hondew Berry	Spicy, Dry, Bitter			Only if you want it to, it will lower the 
	375							Pokemon’s Special Attack Base Stat 1.

25 Grepa Berry	Dry, Sweet, Sour			Only if you want it to, it will lower the 
	375							Pokemon’s Special Defense Base Stat 1.
26 Tamato Berry	Spicy, Dry				Only if you want it to, it will lower the 
	375							Pokemon’s Speed Base Stat 1.
27 Cornn Berry	Dry, Sweet				No Effect.
	90
28 Magost Berry	Sweet, Bitter				No Effect.
	90
29 Rabuta Berry	Bitter, Sour				No Effect.
	90
30 Nomel Berry	Spicy, Sour				No Effect.
	90
31 Spelon Berry	Spicy, Dry				No Effect.
	90
32 Pamtre Berry	Dry, Sweet				No Effect.
	90
33 Watmel Berry	Sweet, Bitter				No Effect.
	90
34 Durin Berry	Bitter, Sour				No Effect.
	90
35 Belue Berry		Spicy, Sour				No Effect.
	90
36 Occa Berry		Spicy, Sweet 				If hit by a super-effective Fire-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
37 Passho Berry	Dry, Bitter				If hit by a super-effective Water-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
38 Wacan Berry	Sweet, Sour				If hit by a super-effective Electric-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
39 Rindo Berry	Spicy, Bitter				If hit by a super-effective Grass-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
40 Yache Berry	Dry, Sour				If hit by a super-effective Ice-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
41 Chople Berry	Spicy, Bitter				If hit by a super-effective Fighting-TypeMove,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
42 Kebia Berry 	Dry, Sour				If hit by a super-effective Poison-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
43 Shuca Berry	Spicy, Sweet				If hit by a super-effective Ground-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
44 Coba Berry		Dry, Bitter				If hit by a super-effective Flying-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
45 Payapa Berry	Sweet, Sour				If hit by a super-effective Psychic-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
46 Tanga Berry	Spicy, Sour				If hit by a super-effective Bug-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
47 Charti Berry	Spicy, Dry				If hit by a super-effective Rock-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
48 Kasib Berry		Dry, Sweet				If hit by a super-effective Ghost-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
49 Haban Berry	Sweet, Bitter				If hit by a super-effective Dragon-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
50 Colbur Berry	Bitter, Sour 				If hit by a super-effective Dark-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.

51 Babiri Berry	Spicy, Dry				If hit by a super-effective Steel-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
52 Chilan Berry	Dry, Sweet				If hit by a Normal-Type Move, the attack 	
	275							deals damage as if the pokemon resists it 	
								instead.
53 Roseli Berry	Dry, Sweet				If hit by a super-effective Fairy-Type Move,
	275							the attack deals neutral damage instead.
54 Liechi Berry	Spicy, Dry, Sweet			When below 50% HP, raise Attack 1 Combat 			365							Stage.
55 Ganlon Berry 	Dry, Sweet, Bitter			When below 50% HP, raise Defense 1 
	365							Combat Stage.
56 Salac Berry		Sweet, Bitter, Sour			When below 50% HP, raise Speed 1 Combat 			365							Stage.
57 Petaya Berry	Spicy, Bitter, Sour			When below 50% HP, raise Special Attack 1 			365							Combat Stage.
58 Apicot Berry	Spicy, Dry, Sour			When below 50% HP, raise Special Defense 1 		365							Combat Stage.
59 Lansat Berry	Spicy, Dry, Sweet, Bitter, Sour		When below 50% HP, pokemon’s Moves are 			365							Critical Hits on 18-20 for 3 rounds.
60 Starf Berry		Spicy, Dry, Sweet, Bitter, Sour		When below 50% HP, raise a random stat, 	
	365							other then HP, 1 Combat Stage.
61 Enigma Berry	Spicy, Dry				If hit by a super-effective Move, recover 1/4th 
	2,555							of pokemon’s Max HP.
62 Micle Berry		Dry, Sweet				When below 50% HP, the pokemon needs -2 
	2,555							to hit with any Move for 3 rounds.
63 Custap Berry	Sweet, Bitter				When below 10% HP, grant the Effect 
	2,555							Keyword “Interrupt” to any of the user’s 
								At-Will Moves, with Damage Dice Rolls 
								for 1 round.
64 Jaboca Berry	Bitter, Sour				When hit by a Melee attack, the attacker loses 		2,555							1/2 the damage delt to Jaboca Berry’s user. 
65 Rowap Berry	Spicy, Sour				When hit by a Ranged attack, the attacker 
	2,555							loses 1/2 the damage delt to Rowap Berry’s 
								user. 
66 Kee Berry		Dry, Sweet				When hit by a Move that uses the Attack stat, 
 	2,555							the user’s Defense is raised 1 Combat Stage.
67 Maranga Berry	Dry, Bitter				When hit by a Move that uses the Special 
	2,555							Attack stat, the user’s Special Defense is 
								raised 1 Combat Stage.

Healing/Restoration Items:
	Most of these items are almost always available for sale at Poke Marts. They are essential 
equipments that adventuring Trainers want to have access to while they are out on the road, far from any Pokemon Centers.
	Pokemon who are fainted (below 0 HP), may only be immediately revived by specific items such as “Revive” or by a Trainer Feature that applies enough healing to bring it above 0 HP. Potions and other healing items bring a Pokemon above 0 HP, but not make it regain consciousness until 10 minutes after it received the healing that brought it above 0 HP.
	It is a Trainer Action to use a Healing/Restoration Item on a allied Pokemon, and the allied 
Pokemon that is targeted cannot Shift, use Moves, or activate Abilities during that round of combat. When using a Healing/Restoartion Item on yourself, it still takes a Trainer Action to apply the item, you may not Shift or Issue Commands, on a turn that you use a Healing/Restoration Item on yourself.
	Healing another Trainer uses the healing Trainer’s, Trainer Action and the Trainer being healed loses their next Shift Action that round. A Trainer may refuse healing from an item. Trainer Class 
Features that heal are not restricted by this, and only use up the appropriate action of the healer.

Potions/Status Affliction Curatives:
	Potions are a useful way for Trainers to keep their Pokemon in fighting shape without needing to 
return to a  pokemon center every single time they run into an angry wild pokemon. Potions are sold in small, one time use spray bottles that when sprayed on a pokemon, sterilize and heal wounds. Potions are meant for Pokemon use. When used on humans, it will sterilize or stabilize a wound, but it cannot repair damaged tissue and seal wounds. If the entire bottle of Potion isn’t used, it cannot take effect on the 
pokemon. Be careful with “Repulsive” medicines! They decrease a Pokemon’s loyalty with repeated use.
      

Cost:	Name:			Effect:
200	Potion			Heals 2d12+10 HP when used.
350	Super Potion		Heals 3d12+20 HP when used.
450	Hyper Potion		Heals 4d12+30 HP when used.
400  	MooMoo Milk		Heals 8d6+25
250	Antidote		Cures Poison.
200	Paralyze Heal		Cures Paralysis.
200	Awakening		Cures Sleep.
250	Burn Heal		Cures Burns.
200	Ice Heal		Cures Freezing.
500	Full Heal		Cures all Status Afflictions.
300	Revive			Revives a fainted Pokemon, setting the Pokemon’s HP to 20.
350	Ether			Restores a Battle or Center Frequency Move for another use.
750	Elixir			Restores all Battle and Center Frequency Moves for more uses.
300	Energy Powder	Heals 4d10+15 HP - Repulsive.
450	Energy Root		Heals 4d20+15 HP - Repulsive.
300 	Heal Powder		Cures all Status Afflcitions - Repulsive.
200 	Revival Herb		Revives a fainted Pokemon, setting the Pokemon’s HP to 10. - Repulsive.

Vitamins and Battle Pills:
	These items are not always available for sale at Poke Marts. Usually you’d need to be at a large city or a speciality store to purchase them.

Performance Enhancers:
	These pills give a temporary boost to your Pokemon’s Combat Stages until they’re returned to your Poke Ball or after ten minutes. Be careful with “Repulsive” Enhancers! They decrease a Pokemon’s loyalty with repeated use.
      
Price:	Name:			Effect:
80	X Attack		Raises the user’s Attack 1 Combat Stage
80	X Defend		Raises the user’s Defense 1 Combat Stage
80	X Special		Raises the user’s Special Attack 1 Combat Stage
80	X Sp. Def		Raises the user’s Special Defense 1 Combat Stage
80	X Speed		Raises the user’s Speed 1 Combat Stage
80	X Accuracy		The user’s Accuracy Checks are lowered by 2
80	Dire Hit		The user’s Moves are Critical Hits on 18-20
80	Guard Spec.		For five rounds, the user’s Combat Stages may not be lowered
200	Herbal Booster	Raises the user’s Attack or Special Attack 2 Combat Stages - Repulsive
200	Endurance Root	Raises the user’s Defense or Special Defense 2 Combat Stages - Repulsive
200	Quick Weed		Raises the user’s Speed 2 Combat Stages - Repulsive


Vitamins:
	In order to make better use of your Pokemon, you sometimes need to modify their Base Stats. 
Vitamins do just that. However, you may only get use out of up to five Vitamins per pokemon. after you have used five vitamins on a pokemon, any vitamins fed to a pokemon afterwards will have no effect.
      
Price:	Name:			Effect:
4,900	HP Up			Raise the user’s HP Base Stat 1.
4,900	Protein			Raise the user’s Attack Base Stat 1.
4,900	Iron			Raise the user’s Defense Base Stat 1.	
4,900	Calcium		Raise the user’s Special Attack Base Stat 1.
4,900	Zinc			Raise the user’s Special Defense Base Stat 1.
4,900	Carbos			Raise the user’s Speed Base Stat 1.
9,800	PP Up			Raise one of the user’s Move’s Frequency one level. Use only once per Move.
48,000	Rare Candy		The user gains 15,000 experience points.

Trainer Items:
	Not all items are just for Pokemon. These are some items and suggested prices for Trainer healing and other useful items a Trainer might want to pick up at a Poke Mart. Don’t forget to eat! Eating is 
important. Without at least two meals a day, a Trainer might start to feel very fatigued which might give a GM a reason to start penalizing your rolls. 

Trainer Recovery Drinks:
	These special drinks will invigorate Trainers and give them the strength to carry on. They cannot mend a broken arm or cure blindness, but stablizing Trainer on the way to a city hospital is always a good idea. These are specially made drinks- not any old bottle of water will do what Enriched Water does!
      
Cost:	Name:			Effect:
300	Enriched Water	Heals 30 HP.
400	Super Soda Pop	Heals 45 HP.
500	Sparkling Lemonade	Heals 60 HP.
350	Lumlum Juice		Cures all Status Afflictions.

General Items:
	Usually available in most Poke Marts are these kinds of camping supplies which are very useful for a Trainer on the road. I’m sure there’s more, but you’d have to ask your GM for specifics.
   
Cost:	Name:			Effect:
650	Field First Aid Kit	After 10 minutes of use, a Trainer with at least 14 Intelligence or 14 Wisdom
 				can stabalize another Trainer. This will bring any Trainer below 0% HP to 						1HP. They will not be conscious. 
250	Trainer’s Road Kit	Backpack, Bedroll, Tent-1x1m, Poke Ball belt, Solar-Rechargeable Flashlight,
				Tarp-2x2m (Backpack with everything inside is about 20kg, lots of room left)
20	Writer’s Kit		Two  Notebooks (one unlined, one lined), pack of four pencils and four pens
100	Basic Tool Kit		Hammer, Screwdriver, Wrench, Steel Ruler (30cm)
35	Nails and Screws	20 Nails, 20 Screws, 20 Nuts and Bolts
50	Sturdy Rope		Strong rope, ten meters worth. Will reliably withstand 100kg of force. 
25	Grappling Hook	Two or three pronged, with a hole on its shaft for rope.
10	Grab-and-Go Meal	A meal. Breakfast, lunch or dinner. Your first natural 1 during a non-feature
 				dice check, within 1 hour, will count as a natural 5 instead (ability limited to 
				once per day). 
10	Field Rations		Who knows how long you’ll be out there? These meals do not go bad, are 						very light, and are not bigger then a small book (Most Poke Marts also sell 
				theses in packs of three for 25).


Town Services:
	Sometimes, a Trainer Recovery Drink won’t do enough- Some Trainers get hit hard. Medics can be found at any sizeable City and usually even in smaller Towns. To repair a broken Trainer can get pretty costly, but what were they doing in the first place to get like that?
    
Cost:	Name:			Effect:
1,500	Cast			Broken arm or leg? These casts should hold you in place for two weeks and 	
				mend the break. 
10,000	A Complete Recovery	Sometimes, a Trainer goes far into the negative. If they’re not dead, a Trainer 
				brought to the proper facilities will surely get them back on their feet, after a 
				few days’ rest.

Held Battle Items:
	During battle, a Pokemon may hold and make use of a single Item. Some Items, Static, are 
activated as long as a Pokemon is holding it. Others must be activated on purpose like Use and Daily, items. Berries are holdable items that can eaten on command, however they can also be used outside of Encounters. Use frequency items are one-time use consumable held items, not unlike a Berry. Daily 
frequency Held items do not disappear when used, but are so powerful that they take at least twenty hours to recharge their power. Held Items are activated as Free Actions during a pokemon’s turn during a round of combat. This is list of examples of Held items and some of these Held Items are Evolution 
Inducing Keepsakes. It is possible that a unique non-Player Artificer may invent new, powerful Held Items for your party or maybe you could discover some ancient item yourself.
 
Name/Price:	Frequency:		Effect:
Absorb Bulb	Use	When hit by a Water-Type Move, the holder may use Absorb Bulb to raise the  
     200			user’s Special Attack 1 stage.
Big Root	Static	Moves that gain HP by dealing damage gain twice the HP they normally would. 
     1,000		
Binding Band	Static	When the holder uses a Trapping Move that deals 1d12 per turn while Trapping a 
     1,400		target, instead use 1d20 for those rolls.
Black Sludge	Static	Restores 1/16th HP each turn to Poison types, non-Poison Types to lose 1/8th HP 	     4,000		each turn.
Bright Powder	Static	+2 to the user’s Speed Evasion.	
     6,000
Cell Battery	Use	When hit by a Electric-Type Move, the holder may use Cell Battery to raise	
     200			the user’s Attack 1 stage.
Cleanse Tag	Daily	Target Wild Pokemon flees without fail.	
     1,000
Damp Rock	Daily	If the holder uses the move Rain Dance, Damp Rock may be activated to cause 
     3,500		the Weather to last for 3 minutes (18 rounds) instead of 2.	
Deepseascale	Static	While Underwater, the holder’s Special Defense is raised by 1 Combat Stage and 
     3,000		the holder gains Underwater 4, or Underwater +3 if they already have the 
			Underwater Capability. The holder does not lose the Sinker Capability.
Deepseatooth	Static	While Underwater, the holder’s Special Attack is raised by 1 Combat Stage and 
     3,000		the holder gains Underwater 4, or Underwater +3 if they already have the 
			Underwater Capability. The holder does not lose the Sinker Capability.
Destiny Knot	Static	If holder becomes infatuated, the foe that caused the Infatuation becomes 
     3,000		Infatuated as well.	
Dragon Scale	Static	Any of the holder’s Moves with the Spirit Surge Keyword activate their Spirit Surge 
     3,000		Effects on 2 less than the required number during Accuracy Check.
Dubious Disc	Static	The holder, when gaining EXP, gains 30 less EXP.
     3,000
Electririzer	Static	The holder gains the Static Ability. If a foe is Paralysed as a result of the
     3,000		Electririzer, the user is Paralysed as well.
Everstone	Static	As long as Everstone is Held, the holder may not evolve.	
     3,000
Eviolite	Static	Only affects un-evolved Pokemon. Raises Combat Stage by +1 for two different    
     6,000  		Stats, decided when the Eviolite is made.	
Expert Belt	Static	Whenever the holder deals Super Effective Damage, they may add their STAB 
     6,000 		value to the damage dealt.
Flame Orb	Static	Induces Burn on holder.	
     4,800
Name/Price:	Frequency:		Effect:
Float Stone	Static	The holder’s Weight Class is 2 lower.
     1,000
Focus Band	Static	If the holder would be brought to 0 HP or less as the result of a foe’s Move, roll   
     6,700 		1d20. On a result of 16-20, the holder is left with 1HP, once per encounter.
Focus Sash	Static	If damage from a single Move would take Focus Sash’s holder’s HP from Max to 0 
     7,200		or less, Focus Sash’s holder instead has 1 HP remaining, once per encounter.
Full Incense	Static	The holder gains the Stall Ability.
     1,800
Grip Claw	Static	Moves with the Trap Keyword last for their full duration.	
     3,500
Heat Rock	Daily	If the holder uses the move Sunny Day, Heat Rock may be activated to cause the 
     3,500		Weather to last for 3 minutes (18 rounds) instead of 2.
Icy Rock	Daily	If the holder uses the move Hail, Icy Rock may be activated to cause the Weather  
     3.500		to last for 3 minutes (18 rounds) instead of 2.
Iron Ball	Static	The holder’s speed is halved, and any Immunities to Ground Type are lost.	
     1,000		The holder gains the Sinker Capability.
King’s Rock	Static	Melee Attacks cause the target to Flinch on a roll of 19-20. This does not stack 
     3,000		with any Abilities, Moves, or Effects that extend Flinch rate.
Lagging Item	Static	The Lagging Items; Lagging Tail, Lagging Fist, Lagging Eyes, each set a stat to -4
     1,000		Combat Stages. The Lagging Tail affects Speed, the Lagging Fist affects Attack and 
			the Lagging Eyes affect Special Attack.
Lax Incense	Static	+1 to the user’s Attack, Special Attack and Speed Evasions	
     1,800
Leftovers	Use	Recovers 1/16th of the Holder’s Max HP each round for the rest of the encounter. 	
     2,000
Life Orb	Static	Whenever the holder deals damage, they may add their STAB value to the damage 
     8,200 		dealt, but must then lose HP equal to that same value.
Light Clay	Static	When the holder uses Reflect, Light Screen, or Safeguard, each always last 5 turns.	
     3,700
Luck Incense	Static	The holder needs to roll -1 to hit during accuracy rolls. A roll of 1 always misses.	 
     1,800
Lucky Egg	Use	Lucky Egg may be activated when gaining EXP. The EXP gained is doubled.	
     -----
Lucky Punch	Use	The holder’s Critical Hit range is increased by 3 for the remainder of the encounter.
     2,400
Magmarizer	Static	The holder gains the Flame Body Ability. If a foe is Burned as a result of the
     3,000		Magmarizer, the user is Burned as well.
Mental Herb	Use	Removes the effects of Infatuation, Taunt, Encore, Torment, Disable, or 
     2,000		Cursed Body
Metal Coat	Daily	The holder is treated as if it has Steel-Type Resistances and Immunities until after    
     3,000		it is hit with a damaging move that would be Resisted or Ignored due to Metal 
			Coat. After taking the Damage from the Move as if it were Resisted or Ignored, 
			Metal Coat becomes inactive for another 20 hours.
Metronome	Static	When using an At-Will Move, that the holder used during their last turn, add +1/2 
     1,000		STAB to the total Damage.
Oval Stone	Static	The holder’s Power Capability is +1, but cannot raise the holder’s Power Capability
     3,000		if it is already 3 or higher.
Poke Doll	Use	Target Pokemon with an Intelligence Capability of 4 or lower is distracted for 1d6 
     1,000		turns, during which time it will not attack or pursue any targets unless it is 
			provoked.	

Name/Price: 	Frequency:		Effect:
Power Herb	Use	If used while performing one of the following Moves: SolarBeam, Skull Bash, Sky
     2,000		Attack, Razor Wind, Fly, Dig, Dive, Bounce or Shadow Force, act as if you have 
			already performed any turn requirements in the Effect and perform the second 
			turn on the Move.	
Protector	Daily	If the holder would be hit by a Move that would deal x4 Damage after applying 
     3,000		Weaknesses, instead for that Move, only take x2 Damage.
Quick Claw	Static	The holder adds their STAB value to their Speed Stat for the purposes of 
     4,200		determining turn order.	
Razor Claw	Static	Attacks are Critical Hits on a roll of 18-20. This does not stack with any Abilities, 
     3,000		Moves, or Effects that extend Critical Hit rate.
Razor Fang	Static	Melee Attacks cause the target to Flinch on a roll of 19-20. This does not stack 
     3,000		with any Abilities, Moves, or Effects that extend Flinch rate.
Reaper Cloth	Use	The holder covers themselves in the Reaper Cloth, making any Ranged attack target
     3,000		through Rough Terrain for the remainder of the encounter. This will activate the 
			Stealth Capability.
Ring Target	Static 	Do not acknowledge the holder’s Immunities when applying Weakness/Resistance/    
     1,000		Immunities.
Shell Bell	Daily	Shell Bell may be activated when the user deals damage to a foe with a Move. After
     5,200 		the target of the Move takes damage, the holder gains HP equal to half of the 
			damage they dealt to the target.
Smoke Ball	Use	Creates Smoke in a 2 Meter Blast, with effects as if having used the Move, 
     2,000		Smokescreen
Smooth Rock	Daily	If the holder uses the move Sandstorm, Smooth Rock may be activated to cause 
     3,500		the Weather to last for 3 minutes (18 rounds) instead of 2.	
Stat Boosters	Daily	These items have a chosen Stat, either Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special 
     2,000		Defense, or Speed.  When released from a Poke Ball, the holder’s chosen Stat is 	
			raised 1 Combat Stage.
Sticky Barb	Static	During each round, the holder loses 1/10th of it’s Max HP. If the holder is hit by a 
     3,650		Melee Move, or uses a Melee Move on another Pokemon, flip a coin; on heads, give 
			Sticky Bard to the offender/target if they are not holding an item.
Toxic Orb	Static	Induces Bad Poison on holder.	
     4,800
Training Stick	Static	The Holder’s Melee Moves that do not include the word Head, Kick or Punch
     3,000		have an increased Range of 2, but are still Melee Moves.
Type Boosters	Static	These items come in a variety of each of the Elemental Types, and grant a +1/2 	
     1,800		STAB bonus to a particular Type’s Moves, regardless if the holder is the same Type
     			as the Move.
Type Plates	Static	Plates are ancient tiles, the size of a business card, and grant +1 STAB bonus to a
     -----			particular Type’s Moves, regardless if the holder is the same Type as the Move.
Up-Grade	Static	The holder, when gaining EXP, gains an additional 15 EXP.
     3,000
White Herb	Use	Any negative Combat Stages are set to 0.	
     2,000
Wide Lens	Daily	Activate before making an Accuracy Roll. The user needs to roll -3 to hit on its 
     5,200 		next Accuracy Roll. A roll of 1 always misses.	

Held Evolutionary Stones/Keepsakes:
	Some Pokemon evolve upon contact with radioactive Elemental Stones, while rarer evolutions take place only once a Pokemon becomes bonded to a keepsake of sorts. Here are the relevant Elemental Stones and a list of Evolutionary Keepsakes (which also appear with Effects in the Held Items list).

 Everything Priced at 3,000 each ---
Stone Name:			Related Pokemon:
Fire Stone			Evolves Vulpix, Growlithe, Eevee, Pansear
Water Stone			Evolves Poliwhirl, Shellder, Staryu, Eevee, Lombre, Panpour
Thunder Stone			Evolves Pikachu, Eevee, Eelektrik
Leaf Stone			Evolves Gloom, Weepinbell, Exeggcute, Eevee, Nuzleaf, Pansage
Moon Stone			Evolves Nidorina, Nidorino, Clefairy, Jigglypuff, Eevee, Skitty, Munna
Sun Stone			Evolves Gloom, Eevee, Sunkern, Cottonee, Whimsicott
Shiny Stone			Evolves Eevee, Togetic, Roselia, Minccino, Floette
Dusk Stone			Evolves Eevee, Murkrow, Misdreavus, Lampent, Doublade
Dawn Stone			Evolves Eevee, Male Kirlia, Female Snorunt

Keepsake Name:		Related Pokemon:	Keepsake Name:		Related Pokemon:
Deepseascale/Deaseatooth	Evolves Clamperl	Prisim Scale			Evolves Feebas
Dragon Scale			Evolves Seadra		Protector			Evolves Rhydon
Dubious Disc			Evolves Porygon2	Razor Claw			Evolves Sneasel
Electirizer			Evolves Electabuzz	Razor Fang			Evolves Gligar
Magmarizer			Evolves Magmar	Reaper Cloth			Evolves Dusclops
Metal Coat			Evolves Onix, Scyther	Sachet				Evolves Spritzee
Oval Stone			Evolves Happiny	Up-Grade			Evolves Porygon
King’s Rock			Evolves Poliwhirl, Slowpoke	Whipped Dream	Evolves Swirlix
Miscellaneous Items:

Magical Flutes:
	Magical Flutes are rare artifacts made only by skilled Artificers. They are not usually found in stores. These are not the exactly same as the Flutes that a Player Artificer can make, so an Artificer’s Flutes might not sell as well as these price indicate.
Price:	Flute Color:		Effects:
1850	Blue Flute		When played, all Pokemon within 3m afflicted with Sleep are cured. 
				Use only once per day.
1750	Red Flute		When played, all Pokemon within 3m afflicted with Infatuation are cured. 
				Use only once per day.
1750	Yellow Flute		When played, all Pokemon within 3m afflicted with Confusion are cured.
				Use only once per day.
1500	Black Flute		When played, target a wild pokemon within 10m of you. Roll 1d20; if you 
				roll higher than a 5 and the Pokemon is less than 10 levels higher than an 						allied active pokemon, the targeted pokemon flees the encounter without 	
				fail. Use only once per day.
1500	White Flute		When played, target a wild pokemon within 10m of you. Roll 1d20; if you 
				roll higher than a 15 and the Pokemon is less than 10 levels higher than an 
				allied active pokemon, the targeted pokemon cries out for allies. The GM 
				determines how many more wild Pokemon join the encounter. Use only 						once per Week.

Repels:
	Repels can be sprayed on one’s self in order to ward of wilds with a subtle smell that greatly annoys pokemon. It’s best to not make your own pokemon endure the smell while using Repels yourself. Only really desperate, wild pokemon will bother with attacking you when you spray Repel on yourself.
Price:	Strength:			Effect:
200	Repel				Lasts 1d6+3 Hours.
300	Super Repel			Lasts 1d8+4 Hours.
400	Max Repel			Lasts 1d10+5 Hours.

Key Stones and Mega Stones:
	Key Stones are small marble-like stones that enable Trainers to sync with their Pokemon who have Mega Stones. Key Stones can be placed into charms, bracelets, necklaces or just about anything. They are sold in specialty shops that also carry Mega Stones.
	While Keystones are usually sold as low as 15,000 and as high as 50,000, Mega Stones are 
extremely rare and sought after. If any specialty store sells Mega Stones, it could be as cheap as 5,000 or as expensive as 1,000,000. Key Stones are manufactured so unless someone loses theirs, you won’t find one while exploring. Mega Stones can be found but are very rare so saving up might be the easiest way to get them.






Other:
	There are hundreds of Items to use in the Pokemon world, those listed here are only suggested Items! Your GM can provide additional Items and maybe you can create your own while on your 
Pokemon Adventure.	

Poke Balls:
	When you use a Poke Ball, add or subtract the Poke Ball’s modifier from your d100 Capture Roll. These are a few existing Poke Balls, your campaign might feature Poke Balls not seen here, or as a Poke Ball Designer, you may invent your own Poke Balls. Most Poke Marts will at least carry Balls numbered 1-3.


Ball Name:		Mod: 	Special: 
01 Basic Ball		+5
02 Great Ball		+0
03 Ultra Ball		-10
04 Master Ball		-100	Incredibly Rare. Worth at least 300,000. Sold nowhere.
05 Safari Ball		+0	Used during Safari hunts.
06 Level Ball		+5	-15 Modifier, if the target is under half the level your active pokemon is.
07 Lure Ball		+0	-10 Modifier, if the target was baited into the encounter with food.
08 Moon Ball		+0	-15 Modifier, if the target evolves with an Evolution Stone.
09 Friend Ball		-5	A caught pokemon will start with Loyalty 2.
10 Love Ball		+0	-15 Modifier, if the target is the opposite gender of an ally Pokemon.
11 Heavy Ball		+5	-5 Modifier, for each Weight Class the target is above 2.
12 Fast Ball		+5	-15 Modifier, if the target has a Speed Capability above 7.
13 Sport Ball		+0	Used during Safari hunts.
14 Premier Ball	+0	Given as promotional balls during sales.
15 Repeat Ball		+10	-15 Modifier, if you already own a Pokemon of the target’s species.
16 Timer Ball		+5	-5 to the Modifier after every 2 rounds until the Modifier is -20.
17 Nest Ball		+0	-15 Modifier, if the target is under level 10.				
18 Net Ball		+0	-15 Modifier, if the target is Water or Bug type.			
19 Dive Ball		+5	-15 Modifier, if the target was found underwater or underground.	
20 Luxury Ball		-5	A caught pokemon is easily pleased and starts with a raised happiness. 
21 Heal Ball		-5	A caught pokemon will heal to Max HP immediatley upon capture.       
22 Quick Ball		-20	+5 Modifier after 1 round of the encounter, +10 Modifier after round 2.
23 Dusk Ball		+0	-15 Modifier if it is dark, or if there is very little light out, when used.
24 Cherish Ball	-5
25 Park Ball		+0	Used during Safari hunts.

	Basic Balls are sold for 200, Great Balls for 500 and Ultra Balls for 1000. All Special balls are usually sold for 1000 as well. 

Technical Medicine and Horizon Medicine 
  Syringes:
	The TMs and HMs in Pokemon: Tabletop Adventures work unlike the TMs and HMs in other 
Pokemon canon. TMs are syringes, usually kept in a small protective case that bear the TM/HM number. HMs are similar fashion, but unlike TMs, they are reusable jet injectors that are about a foot long. These do not actually have needles on their end and instead fire a high-pressure stream of the injection for the 
pokemon. TMs and HMs are numbered so that the Move inside the injection can be identified, for 
example TM 01 and HM01 both can teach Focus Punch. HMs continuously replenish their supply but need at least two days between their uses or else the HM’s supply will deplete.
	Once injected, the TM or HM uses poke-engineering technology to grow an artificial organ, or modify an existing organ, necessary for the pokemon to perform the Move associated with the TM. The process is usually painful so it is best to use TMs and HMs at a Pokemon Center where a nurse can help inject the pokemon after giving them anesthetics so the Pokemon feels nothing at all during the process. After using the TM/HM the pokemon should know the related Move, unless the pokemon was 
incompatible with the TM/HM in which case nothing will happen. Like pokemon who are incompatible with particular Moves, an injection of TM or HM into a human will do nothing.

#:	Name:			Price:
01 	- Hone Claws		1200
02 	- Dragon Claw		2400
03 	- Psyshock		2900
04 	- Calm Mind		1200
05 	- Roar 			1000
06 	- Toxic			1900
07 	- Hail			1500
08 	- Bulk Up		1200
09 	- Venoshock		2300
10 	- Hidden Power	1500
11 	- Sunny Day		1500
12 	- Taunt			1000
13 	- Ice Beam		4200
14 	- Blizzard		5100
15 	- Hyper Beam		5000
16 	- Light Screen		1500
17 	- Protect		2500
18 	- Rain Dance		1500
19 	- Roost			3500
20 	- Safeguard		1000
21 	- Frustration		3000
22 	- Solarbeam		4600
23 	- Smack Down		2500
24 	- Thunderbolt		4200
25 	- Thunder		5100
26 	- Earthquake		4000
27 	- Return		3000
28 	- Dig			3400
29 	- Psychic		3500
30 	- Shadow Ball		2700
31 	- Brick Break		2400
#:	Name:			Price:
32 	- Double Team		2500
33 	- Reflect		1500
34 	- Sludge Wave		4200
35 	- Flamethrower	4200
36 	- Sludge Bomb		4300
37 	- Sandstorm		1500
38 	- Fire Blast		5100
39 	- Rock Tomb		2800
40 	- Aerial Ace		2800
41 	- Torment		1000
42 	- Facade		3100
43 	- Flame Charge	2100
44 	- Rest			2000
45 	- Attract		1200
46 	- Thief			2200
47 	- Low Sweep		2400
48 	- Round		2800
49 	- Echoed Voice	1500
50 	- Overheat		5100
51 	- Steel Wing		1500
52 	- Focus Blast		4400
53 	- Energy Ball		2700
54 	- False Swipe		1200
55 	- Scald			3000
56 	- Fling			2000
57 	- Charge Beam		2300
58 	- Sky Drop		2800
59 	- Incinerate		1400
60 	- Quash		1000
61 	- Will-O-Wisp		2200
62 	- Acrobatics		2800
#:	Name:			Price:
63 	- Embargo		1000
64 	- Explosion		7500
65 	- Shadow Claw		2400
66 	- Payback		2500
67 	- Retaliate 		3600
68 	- Giga Impact		5000
69 	- Rock Polish		1200
70 	- Flash			1500
71 	- Stone Edge		3900
72 	- Volt Switch		3100
73 	- Thunder Wave	2200
74 	- Gyro Ball 		2500
75 	- Swords Dance	1200
76 	- Struggle Bug		1700
77 	- Psych Up		2100
78 	- Bulldoze 		2400
79 	- Frost Breath		1000
80 	- Rock Slide		4200
81 	- X-Scissor		2400
82 	- Dragon Tail		2800
83 	- Infestation		2300
84 	- Poison Jab		3000
#:	Name:			Price:
85 	- Dream Eater		3000
86 	- Grass Knot		2900
87 	- Swagger		1000
88 	- Sleep Talk		1000
89 	- U-Turn		3100
90 	- Substitute		2000
91 	- Flash Cannon	2700
92 	- Trick Room		2000
93 	- Wild Charge		2500
94 	- Rock Smash		1500
95 	- Snarl			2400
96	- Nature Power	1600
97	- Dark Pulse		2700
98	- Power-Up Punch	1600
99	- Dazzling Gleam	2700
100	- Confide		1000
A1	- Cut			75
A2	- Fly			3200
A3	- Surf			5000
A4 	- Strength		3400
A5 	- Waterfall		3700
A6 	- Dive			2900

	This is a list of distributed TMs available in stores. Not all of them are widely available and HMs are very rarely available. HMs are usually cost at least 20 times the HM’s TM counterpart would be. This list in not exhaustive. Sometimes, TM 112 (Scratch),  TM F7 (String Shot) or TM 082 (an alternate TM that carries Rock Slide as well) are carried in stores, or a TM 66 that doesn’t teach Payback. Ask store owners about what it is you are purchasing and check with Pokemon Centers before applying TMs!


Combat Demo


    

Scenario: 
New Trainers, Tyrone, Charlotte and Jimmy, have encountered a group of wild Pokemon. Each have different approaches to how they want to handle the situation, but will work together to defeat the wild group.

Tyrone is an Ace Trainer who picked up a Torchic and 
Turtwig, aiming to take down the Indigo League Conference.


Charlotte is a Researcher; she studied up on Squirtle and 
Bulbasaur before choosing them to take on her journey.


Jimmy is a Martial Artist who wants to train with his 
Charmander and Mudkip, fighting along side them in combat.

GM: After a few minutes of traveling through the forest, you come across some water. It’s only a few 
inches deep, but it’s covering the forest floor. There are various trees nearby, and some bubbles seems to 
be popping up from under the trees every once in a while.
Jimmy: Is there supposed to be any running water nearby?
Charlotte: The map says that there is a small stream a quarter mile from here.
Tyrone: Then, there shouldn’t be this much water around here. I’m sending out my Turtwig. Go! P.B.! 
Charlotte: My Squirtle might be able to help if anything appears. Come out! Clip!
Jimmy: I think we’ll be fine. It’s just some water.
GM: You hear various grunts from the tree bases that surround you as several brown Pokemon about a 
foot long each appear. They approach on all fours and have large front teeth. There are six of them.
Jimmy: Go! Dirgen! 
Charlotte: Wait, Jimmy! Your Charmander won’t do too well in all this water!
Jimmy: Dirgen! Scratch the nearest brown rodent! I’ll kick the next nearest one!
GM: Your Charmander can’t attack right away, you just sent it out.


COMBAT STARTS:
 
ROUND 1-
Jimmy rolls for his Trainer Attack anyway, an Improvised Kick: 
8 on 1d20 for Accuracy Check, needed a 5, it Hits.
GM: I’ll let that use a 1d10+4 for your damage, since you’re unarmed, as Fist Weapons User.
Jimmy rolls for his Trainer Attack’s Damage:
4 on 1d10, adding STR modifier (3) and DEX and STR modifier for Martial Artist’s Improved Combat (5).
Jimmy: That’s 16 damage!
Bidoof A takes 12 damage. It has 4 Defense.





















GM: After seeing one of their friends get kicked by the intruding trainers, each of the Pokemon become 
very upset and start attacking your group!
Jimmy: My bad, guys.
Charlotte: I already know these are Bidoofs! I’m a Walking Encyclopedia, but I’m going to still scan them with my Pokedex!
Tyrone: Me too! Charlotte, what type of Pokemon are these?
Charlotte: Bidoof are Normal Type Pokemon.
The Pokedex is used by Charlotte and Tyrone. In two Rounds, the Trainers will identify the Pokemon, 
even though they already have access to their information thanks to Charlotte being a Researcher.
Charlotte: Clip! Withdraw!
Squirtle’s Defense is raised one Combat Stage, from 10 to 12.
Tyrone: P.B., you use Withdraw as well!
Turtwig’s Defense is raised one Combat Stage, from 9 to 11.
GM: The brown Pokemon inch towards your party cautiously, they are unsure of how powerful your Pokemon are. Three of them work up the courage to jump at your party. One of them Tackles Tyrone, another one Tackles Clip and the third Tackles Dirgen.
Tyrone: P.B.! Intercept the attack!
Because P.B. has not Shifted yet this round, it may attempt intercept an attack. Its check is 11 on 1d20. Tyrone rolls and gets an 18 on 1d20. PB Shifts between the wild Pokemon and Tyrone, taking the attack.
For Bidoof B, GM rolls a 3 on 1d20. Tackle’s AC is 3.
Bidoof B hits, but only deals 10 damage, which is entirely reduced by P.B.



















GM: The Pokemon rushes forward and slams into P.B., who is unphased by the impact due to its defenses.
For Bidoof C, GM rolls a 12 on 1d20. Tackle’s AC is 3, so Bidoof C hits Clip. GM rolls for damage and adds Bidoof C’s Attack Stat. 2d8 + STAB(1) +6, GM rolls 10+1+6, 17. STAB is added because Bidoof is Normal type, and Tackle is Normal Type.
GM: One Pokemon slams into Clip’s side. Your Squirtle takes 17 damage.
Charlotte: 5, after Defense.
For Bidoof D, GM rolls a 17 on 1d20. Tackle’s AC is 3, so Bidoof D hits Dirgen. GM rolls for damage 
and adds Bidoof D’s Attack Stat. 2d8 + STAB(1)+ 6, GM rolls 11+2+6, 17. 
GM: Another Pokemon lands onto of Dirgen. Your Charmander takes 17 damage.
Jimmy: 12, after Defense.
      
ROUND 2 -
Jimmy: I’ll elbow drop the same Bidoof who I already hit! Dirgen! Scratch up the nearest Bidoof!
Jimmy rolls for his Trainer Attack, another Fist Weapons attack:
12 on 1d20 for Accuracy Check, he needed a 5, it Hits.
Jimmy rolls for his Trainer Attack’s Damage:
2 on 1d10+4, adding STR modifier (3) and DEX and STR modifier for Martial Artist’s Improved 
Combat (5).
Jimmy: That’s 14 damage!
Bidoof A takes 10 more damage. 
Tyrone: I want that Pokemon! I’m throwing a Poke Ball!
Jimmy: But I’m the one who beat it up!
Tyrone rolls 57 on 1d100, because he used a Poke Ball, he adds 5 to his rolled number; 62.
The GM compares Bidoof A’s capture rate, 40 and adds any modifiers, +15 for under 25% HP, +20 for 
under level 20. The Bidoof’s capture rate is 75, which Tyrone rolled under.
GM: The ball shakes once before stopping, you’ve captured the Pokemon.
Tyrone: All right!
Charlotte: Clip! Use Withdraw again!
Squirtle’s Defense is raised one more Combat Stage, making the Defense 15, after being raised two 
Combat Stages.
Tyrone: Dirgen! Scratch a Bidoof!
For his Charmander, Tyrone rolls 1d20 and get a 15, greatly exceeding the needed roll during the 
Accuracy Check. He then rolls 2d6 +9 for his damage and gets 19.
GM: The Pokemon receives a deep cut into its side from Dirgin’s attack, it passes out immediately.
	Tyrone: Good job, Dirgen! 

















GM: After seeing one of their allies disappear into a Poke Ball and another get knocked unconscious, the Pokemon panic and rush angrily at the party. Each Pokemon Tackles a nearby target.
For Bidoof B, GM rolls a 13 on 1d20. Tackle’s AC is 3, so Bidoof B hits Clip, who only has an Evasion Bonus of 3. GM rolls for damage and adds Bidoof B’s Attack Stat. 2d8 + STAB + 6, GM rolls 5+3+6, 
14.
GM: Squirtle is Tackled for 14 damage.
Charlotte: Clip brushes it off, his shell is too hard!
For Bidoof C, GM rolls a 20 on 1d20. It’s a Critical Hit, so Bidoof C hits Clip. GM calculates max 
damage and adds Bidoof C’s Attack Stat. 2d8 + STAB + 6, 16+1+6, 23.
GM: The Pokemon slams into Clip’s head, it’s a Critical Hit! Squirtle takes 23 damage.
Charlotte: That’s still only 8 damage!
For Bidoof F, GM rolls a 2 on 1d20. Tackle’s AC is 3, so Bidoof D misses Jimmy, who only has an 
Evasion Bonus of 2 because of his DEX modifier. 
GM: Jimmy jumps over a Pokemon as it barrels towards him, dodging its tackle.
For Bidoof E, GM rolls a 13 on 1d20. Tackle’s AC is 3, so Bidoof C hits Dirgen. GM rolls for damage 
and adds Bidoof E’s Attack Stat. 2d8 + STAB + 6, GM rolls 8+1+6, 15.
GM: A slamming tackle from the last wild Pokemon hits Dirgen. Charmander takes 15 damage.
Jimmy: Oh crap! Dirgen is unconscious!
GM: A larger brown Pokemon appears from behind another one of the trees. This one has a large, flat 
dark brown tail, but otherwise looks very similar to the smaller brown Pokemon.
Charlotte: Jimmy! Return your Charmander! That’s Bidoof’s evolved form, Bibarel! It’s water type!















ROUND 3 -
Jimmy: Come back, Dirgen! My Mudkip might be able to help out. GO! Beastman!
Charlotte: I’ll use my Pokedex on the Bibarel!
Tyrone: Me too!
GM: Pokedex data comes in, listing all the details of Bidoof, which Charlotte already knew everything about.
Charlotte: Clip! Tackle that Bibarel!
Tyrone: P.B.! Help out by tackling it too!
Both Players roll their Accuracy Checks and get 12 and 16. Both numbers are way over the required 
number to hit. They both roll damage dice rolls and add attack. 2d8 + 1 for Clip; 9. 2d8 + 1 and an 
additional 1 because of Ace Trainer’s Improved Attacks Feature for P.B.; resulting in 7 and 11.
The wild Bibarel has 5 Defense. It takes 2 damage, then 6 damage.














GM: Both Pokemon impact the large wild, making it much angrier. It lets loose a stream of water.
For the Bibarel, GM rolls a 13 on 1d20. It’s easily higher than Clip’s Evasion bonus from Special Defense so it hits and the GM rolls Water Gun’s damage plus Bibarel’s Special Attack Stat. 2d6 + 7, 11+7, 18. The attack hits for half-damage because the Water attack is not very effective against Squirtle’s Water type, 
after Squirtle applies its Special Defense. 19, halved by resistance.
Charlotte: Clip has 3 Special Defense.
GM: Clip is blasted for 16 points of Special Attack damage, which means 8 after resistances.
GM: Concerned that their pack leader isn’t very effective against the intruding Trainers, some Bidoof 
begin to try and escape!
The GM rolls a few escape rolls, but after failing them with Bidoof B and Bidoof C, he decides to attack with Bidoof E and Bidoof F.
GM: A Bidoof charges towards Jimmy while another jumps at P.B.!
For Bidoof E, GM rolls a 13 on 1d20. Tackle’s AC is 3, so Bidoof E hits Jimmy, who only has an Evasion Bonus of 2. GM rolls for damage and adds Bidoof E’s Attack Stat. 2d8 + 6, GM rolls 10+6, 16.
GM: Jimmy is hit for 16 damage.
Jimmy: I can take a hit.
Jimmy is not in danger of becoming unconscious, he is a Martial Artist with over 40 HP thanks to 
Improved Endurance. Also, Jimmy has the generic Trainer Feature, “I Can Take a Hit,” reducing all forms 
of damage by 5.
For Bidoof F, GM rolls a 19 on 1d20. Tackle’s AC is 3, so Bidoof E hits P.B., who only has an Evasion Bonus of 1. GM rolls for damage and adds Bidoof E’s Attack Stat. 2d8 + 6, GM rolls 10+6, 16.
GM: P.B. is rammed for 16 damage. 
Tyrone: 5 after Defense.
Charlotte: We can’t stick around for too much longer, our Pokemon are taking some bad hits.
	Jimmy: I want to catch the Bibarel! Tyrone stole the Bidoof I was attacking!
	Tyrone: I’d prefer to end this quickly, but if that’s what you want...
















ROUND 4 -
Charlotte: Clip! Watergun that Bidoof!
Tyrone: P.B. use Razor Leaf on the Bidoof next to Jimmy!
Jimmy: Beastman! Mud-Slap the nearest Bidoof!
As each player rolls their Accuracy Check, they pass and roll high for damage as well, felling each of the targeted Bidoofs by knocking them below 0 HP. Clip deals even more damage due to it’s Ability, Torrent, activating.
GM: The Bibarel fires off another Watergun, aiming at Beastman. The last remaining Bidoof rushes 
towards Clip for another tackle.
The GM rolls for Bibarel’s Watergun and the final Bidoof’s Tackle, hitting with both. Bibarel’s Watergun 
is not very effective towards the Turtwig, P.B., and ends up only dealing 4 damage. Bidoof B’s tackle hits, but it deals less damage than Clip’s defense, so it doesn’t do anything to Clip.

























ROUND 5 -
GM: Pokdex information is finished loading for Bibarel, Bidoof’s evolution.
Charlotte: Let’s go! Clip Watergun the Bidoof!
Tyrone: P.B. Tackle the Bibarel to make it easier for Jimmy to catch!
Jimmy: Stand by, Beastman! I’m throwing a Great Ball!
Charlotte’s Squirtle fells the remaining Bidoof and Tyrone’s Turtwig is able to deal a few points of 
damage to the Bibarel, making it easier for Jimmy’s Great Ball throw.
Jimmy: Come on Great Ball!
Jimmy rolls 1d100 for Bibarel’s capture roll and gets a 41. A Great Ball does not modify his rolls.
The GM compares Bibarel’s capture rate, 20 and adds any modifiers, +5 for under 50% HP, +20 for
 under level 20. The Bibarel’s capture rate is 45, which Jimmy barely rolled under.
GM: The Great Ball shakes for a few seconds before violently jumping up and down, then suddenly 
stops moving. Jimmy has captured the Bibarel.
























With all wilds captured, or knocked unconscious, the players leave in order to avoid any further
 encounters with the Pokemon who dammed up the nearby stream.

At this point, Experience points would be awarded.
The GM distributes 990 Experience. 570 points are from the level 19 Bibarel, after consulting the Exp 
Drop Chart in the GM Guide, he gets 19 x 30. Then the GM adds the 6 Bidoofs who each drop 10 Exp 
for each level. They were all at level 7, so 7 x 10 = 70. Then 70 x 6 = 420. Total Exp awarded: 990.
Jimmy must split that between his Mudkip and his Charmander, awarding them each 495.
Charlotte awards the entire drop to her Squirtle.
Tyrone awards 1188 Exp to his Turtwig, since he has the Ace Trainer Feature, Enhanced Training.

In addition to this, Tyrone and Charlotte each have raised their Pokedex Seen number by 2.
Tyrone and Jimmy each raised their Pokemon Owned number by 1. 










